CCxTrust: Confidential Computing Platform Based on TEE and TPM
Collaborative Trust

arXiv:2412.03842v3 [cs.CR] 12 Dec 2024

Ketong Shang, Jiangnan Lin, Yu Qin*, Muyan Shen, Hongzhan Ma, Wei Feng, and Dengguo Feng
Institute of Software Chinese Academy of Sciences

1

Abstract
Confidential Computing has emerged to address data security challenges in cloud-centric deployments by protecting
data in use through hardware-level isolation. This paradigm is
particularly beneficial for multi-party collaborative data protection. However, reliance on a single hardware root of trust
(RoT) limits user confidence in cloud platforms, especially for
high-performance AI services, where end-to-end protection
of sensitive models and data is critical. Furthermore, the lack
of interoperability and a unified trust model in multi-cloud
environments prevents the establishment of a cross-platform,
cross-cloud chain of trust, creating a significant trust gap for
users with high privacy requirements.
To address the challenges mentioned above, this paper proposes CCxTrust (Confidential Computing with Trust), a confidential computing platform leveraging collaborative roots of
trust from TEE and TPM. CCxTrust combines the black-box
RoT embedded in the CPU-TEE with the flexible white-box
RoT of TPM to establish a collaborative trust framework. The
platform implements independent Roots of Trust for Measurement (RTM) for TEE and TPM, and a collaborative Root of
Trust for Report (RTR) for composite attestation. The Root of
Trust for Storage (RTS) is solely supported by TPM. We also
present the design and implementation of a confidential TPM
supporting multiple modes for secure use within confidential
virtual machines. Additionally, we propose a composite attestation protocol integrating TEE and TPM to enhance security
and attestation efficiency, which is proven secure under the
PCL protocol security model.
We implemented a prototype of CCxTrust on a confidential computing server with AMD SEV-SNP and TPM chips,
requiring minimal modifications to the TPM and guest Linux
kernel. The composite attestation efficiency improved by 24%
without significant overhead, while Confidential TPM performance showed a 16.47% reduction compared to standard
TPM. The system exhibited low latency and high throughput
in large-scale node concurrent attestations.
Keywords: TEE, TEE, Confidential Computing, Root of
Trust, Collaborative Trust, Composite Attestation.

Introduction

With the rapid development of cloud-based services, public clouds have become an indispensable building block for
nearly all modern applications. However, the shift to cloud
computing introduces unique security challenges, leading to
widespread concerns about the security and privacy of data in
use on the cloud. To address these issues, various confidential computing solutions have been proposed to protect data
from unauthorized parties [15]. Among these, confidential virtual machine (CVM) solutions such as AMD SEV-SNP, Intel
TDX, and ARM CCA are technologies based on Trusted Execution Environments (TEE) [1,3,4,17,24,25,27,42] designed
to enhance the security of data and workloads in virtualized
environments [6, 13]. Their primary goal is to provide higher
levels of privacy and confidentiality during data processing
and storage through a combination of software and hardware,
preventing unauthorized access, including potential threats
from cloud service providers or other third parties.
Unfortunately, existing CVM solutions often limit the ability to enhance the security of data in use, as they focus on minimizing the attack surface to provide a more secure isolation
environment. As the world transitions into an era of heterogeneous computing driven by data collection and exchange,
ensuring control over data has become critically important.
This heightened demand for data privacy and security has
created a trust gap between the system and users. Currently,
different CVM solutions, such as AMD SEV-SNP [1], Intel
TDX [27], ARM CCA [4], and NVIDIA GPU-TEE [38], implement their respective trust models based on their unique
architectures and hardware. However, due to inconsistencies
in standards and mechanisms, users and developers face challenges in achieving unified trust assurance when deploying
workloads in multi-cloud environments. The diverse roots of
trust (RoT) in these solutions hinder the establishment of a
unified trust chain across heterogeneous, cross-platform, and
cross-cloud systems. If users wish to seamlessly migrate or
deploy applications across various cloud services, they must
re-establish trust and policies for each platform. This process
1

increases complexity and introduces potential security risks.
In existing CVM solutions, trust models predominantly rely
on the RoT provided by cloud service providers or hardware
manufacturers. While cloud platforms use TEEs and hardware
isolation to offer protection, users are not directly involved
in establishing or verifying the trust system. This means that
users must entirely depend on the security assurances and
verification mechanisms provided by the platform, resulting
in limited control over the security of their data in the cloud.
For scenarios with high privacy and security requirements,
this asymmetric trust relationship may fail to meet user expectations. This leads to a noticeable trust gap: while users
can leverage the confidential computing technologies offered
by cloud platforms, they cannot fully control or verify operations occurring within the cloud, particularly when critical
data processing is involved. Although cloud service providers
ensure data protection through TEEs and hardware isolation,
the existing trust models lack the transparency and autonomy
required by organizations that aim to establish their own trust
systems.
To address the aforementioned issues, this paper proposes
CCxTrust, a confidential computing platform based on collaborative trust between TEE and TPM. Recognizing that
confidential computing platforms often involve multiple independent hardware RoT (or secure coprocessors) such as
CPU-TEE, GPU-TEE, and TPM, CCxTrust introduces and
establishes a collaborative root of trust system leveraging
TEE and TPM. In this system, the storage root of trust (RTS)
for the confidential computing platform is managed by TPM,
providing secure protection for keys used by TEE. The measurement root of trust (RTM) for TEE and TPM are independently generated, ensuring the integrity and trustworthiness
of the system. Additionally, the reports trust root (RTR) of
TEE and TPM collaboratively generate composite attestation
reports, which serve as a unified entity for remote attestation
of the confidential computing platform, effectively addressing the trust gap in confidential virtual machines. To enable
the collaboration between TEE and TPM while ensuring the
confidentiality of TPM operations, we further designed and
implemented a Confidential TPM (CTPM), providing secure
and efficient runtime protection for TPM in cloud environments. To support large-scale confidential computing clusters,
we also designed a composite attestation protocol combining
TEE and TPM. This protocol integrates static and dynamic
trust chains, offering a collaborative attestation method for
confidential computing environments based on TEE and TPM.
It establishes a trust foundation for secure data sharing and
circulation within the cluster.
Overall, our work has made the following contributions:

achieves collaborative trust between TEE and TPM. This
approach enhances the trustworthiness and security resilience of TEE.
2. We designed and implemented a composite attestation
protocol for confidential computing platforms based on
TEE and TPM, enhancing the security and efficiency of
remote attestation.
3. The TEE and TPM composite attestation protocols satisfy correctness, completeness, and authentication of protocol execution and are inferentially provably secure
under the PCL.
4. We implemented a CCxTrust prototype system on an
AMD-SNP and TPM. The results demonstrate the feasibility, high performance, and scalability of CCxTrust.
The efficiency of composite attestation improves by 24%,
while the performance of CTPM shows a 16.47% decrease compared to standard TPM.

2
2.1

Background
Confidential Virtual Machines(CVMs)

Confidential Virtual Machines (CVMs) provide a confidential computing abstraction at the virtual machine level [20].
They are an innovative solution leveraging Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE) technology to enhance the security of
data and workloads in virtualized environments. The core
principle of CVMs is to combine hardware isolation from
virtualization technology with encryption techniques to create a trusted execution environment at the virtual machine
level, protecting sensitive data and the code execution environment within the VM. For example, solutions such as
AMD’s SEV-SNP, Intel TDX, and ARM CCA achieve this
goal by providing virtual machines (VMs) in cloud computing
environments with independent, encrypted memory spaces.
This ensures that only the VM itself can access its data, while
external entities (such as the host OS, hypervisor, or malicious
attackers) are unable to spy on or tamper with the contents
inside the VM.
AMD SEV-SNP is an advanced technology built on the
previous generation SEV, enhancing virtual machine isolation
through Secure Nested Paging (SNP) to prevent host memory
access or tampering. It also introduces a verification mechanism to ensure the integrity of the VM environment. Intel
TDX focuses on providing a trusted domain (TD) for virtual
machines, using hardware-supported encryption to isolate the
VM from the hypervisor and host system, with remote attestation allowing third-party verification of the VM’s security
state [36]. However, TDX is still in an early development
stage with limited ecosystem support. ARM CCA provides
a separate "Realm" for VM isolation, ensuring secure separation from other system environments. It is particularly
suited for ARM-based embedded and mobile devices, offering efficient confidential computing in resource-constrained

1. This paper introduces CCxTrust, a novel TEE and TPM
collaborative trust root construction scheme for generalpurpose confidential computing platforms. By adopting independent RTM for TEE and TPM, composite
attestation for RTR, and TPM-based RTS, CCxTrust
2

environments. However, its application in cloud computing is
still in the early stages compared to SEV-SNP and TDX.

2.2

implementations. For SGX, there are two remote attestation
schemes: EPID [28] and DCAP [43]. Privacy protection research based on remote attestation schemes is represented
by Opera [10], where researchers proposed an open remote
attestation platform based on SGX, which can serve as an
alternative to Intel attestation service, reducing Intel’s original capabilities. Mage [9] introduced an identity derivation
mechanism that establishes trust between two TEEs without
relying on a trusted third party, to some extent eliminating the
limitations of hardware roots of trust.
In the SGX remote attestation process [17], the signing key
is protected by hardware but can still be exposed through sidechannel attacks, allowing attackers to forge attestation reports
and compromise trust in the TEE. MATEE [21] introduces a
remote attestation mechanism that binds the attestation to a
separate trust root, immune to side-channel attacks, and creates a TPM-based second chain for diversification. However,
remote attestation is vulnerable to denial-of-service (DoS)
attacks. RAS2P [41] proposes a self-measuring attestation
system, leveraging blockchain for identity authentication and
sharing session keys. This allows periodic self-measurement
by the prover and enables the verifier to track multiple reports,
effectively detecting malicious software and mitigating DoS
attacks.
In the SEV remote attestation process, [8] highlights that
attackers can exploit outdated firmware or design flaws to bypass attestation, threatening the integrity and privacy of virtual
machines. SEV-SNP [1] addresses this by preventing malicious cloud providers with physical access from installing
harmful firmware and accessing protected systems. As an
extension of SNP, SVSM [37] introduces a solution for remote attestation of confidential VMs using temporary vTPMs.
This method generates short-lived, non-persistent vTPM instances as the cryptographic trust root, ensuring VM security
and privacy during attestation, while simplifying TPM key
management and enhancing dynamic security, especially in
multi-tenant cloud environments.

TPM

The Trusted Platform Module (TPM), as a cryptographic
coprocessor, provides a hardware-based standard security solution [22, 23, 29, 30]. It serves as a foundational security
architecture to support the establishment of new security technologies, fundamentally protecting the integrity and confidentiality of computing platforms [19].
The fTPM [32] does not rely on a physical hardware module but instead provides TPM functionality directly through
firmware within the processor, aiming to offer security features similar to a hardware TPM for devices and VMs. However, since it is implemented in firmware, it is more vulnerable
than hardware TPMs when facing certain physical attacks
or firmware vulnerabilities. AMD processors implement an
fTPM to provide secure key storage and cryptographic operations. However, researchers have successfully used physical
attack methods (such as voltage fault injection) to interfere
with the fTPM’s computation process [31], causing errors,
and ultimately extracting protected keys and other security
information.
CoCoTPM [40] proposes a solution for designing and implementing TPM in confidential computing environments for
virtual machines. It uses virtualization technology to configure an independent virtual TPM (vTPM) instance for each
VM, supporting the confidentiality and integrity protection
of data and providing remote attestation to verify integrity
and identity. It supports all TPM use cases, including measured boot, disk encryption, and key sealing. This solution
has already been implemented on AMD SEV and SEV-SNP.
The eTPM [44] leverages SGX to provide secure TPM
functionality for VMs or applications, encapsulating the key
security features of TPM within secure enclave. This ensures
that key management, cryptographic operations, and remote
attestation run in an isolated environment, preventing unauthorized access or tampering, and effectively addressing potential
threats in multi-tenant cloud environments. SvTPM [45], also
based on SGX, offers an SGX-based vTPM solution. By providing hardware isolation, it offers each virtual machine an
independent trusted execution environment, thus virtualizing
TPM functionality while ensuring efficient operation.

2.3

3

System overview

3.1

Design Goals

The primary goal of CCxTrust is to build a collaborative
trust-based confidential computing platform based on TEE
and TPM, decoupling the single trust relationship of platform vendors, unifying the root of trust, and establishing a
trust system protected by TPM and controlled by the user.
Additionally, the design of CCxTrust should be sufficiently
versatile to be easily applied to CVM solutions on various
platforms, such as x86, ARM, and RISC-V, and support different host and client operating systems, including Linux and
Windows. Furthermore, CCxTrust is required to avoid invasive modifications to the existing software stack and remain
transparent to user-space applications in the CVM, enabling

Remote attestation

The fundamental purpose of attestation is to extend the trust
chain of the confidential computing platform to the verifier,
allowing the verifier to assess the security of the platform and
the current hardware.
A typical remote attestation scheme is the IETF Remote
Attestation Protocol (RATS) [7, 16], which serves as a reference specification for many open-source remote attestation
3

users to easily and seamlessly use the system while providing
security features.

3.2

attacker may compromise the software inside the CVM, targeting workloads or exploiting guest kernel vulnerabilities. A
normal VM could attack hierarchical data of the confidential
TPM. During attestation, the attacker might impersonate components or concatenate fabricated reports to bypass security
verification and gain unauthorized access. Denial-of-Service
(DoS) attacks and side-channel attacks on the TEE are outside
the scope,as such attacks can be defended against through
other works [11, 34, 46] orthogonal to this one.

Challenge

To achieve the unified trust root in the CCxTrust, the following key issues need to be addressed.
Q1: How to build a trust system controlled by the user?
Current TEE systems rely on the device manufacturer’s
root CA, making the user’s trust indirect and dependent on
the manufacturer’s security. This model poses risks, as users
cannot actively manage or verify their trust foundation. Therefore, there is a need to establish a user-controlled trust system,
repositioning the trust anchor to enhance the protection of the
computing environment and data.
Q2: How to bridge the technical gap between TEE and
TPM?
To enable collaboration between TEE and TPM, the technical gap between their differing security roles must be addressed. TEE provides a high-security isolated environment,
limiting the use of functions like IOMMU, which complicates
integrating hardware TPMs in confidential VMs. Additionally,
the isolated runtime environment of TEE requires solutions
for persistent data storage. While key exchange schemes enable encrypted storage, establishing a secure trust chain and
ensuring safe key sharing, free from man-in-the-middle attacks, presents significant challenges.
Q3: How to ensure the security of sensitive data used
by the confidential virtual machine?
In confidential computing, the primary task of a confidential virtual machine is processing sensitive data, which can
be threatened by various factors. While TEE ensures data
security through memory encryption, its isolation techniques
are insufficient for protecting workloads. To maintain the confidentiality and integrity of the virtual machine’s workloads,
dynamic integrity measurement and remote attestation are
essential. However, ensuring the authenticity of the reports
generated by these two components is a critical challenge.

3.3

4

Architecture

In this paper, we propose a collaborative trust-based confidential computing platform that leverages TEE and TPM for
secure operations across massive heterogeneous nodes. The
system’s physical connection architecture, shown in Figure
1a, features direct connections between the CPU TEE and
GPU TEE via a Memory Controller Hub (MCH), while the
TPM chip is linked to the Platform Controller Hub (PCH)
through a bus. Memory regions are partitioned into several
areas, including the private memory of the protected CVM
(Pages (1 of n)) and the memory area shared with the confidential GPU, all protected by the TEE mechanism. A secure
communication path is established between the CPU TEE,
GPU TEE, and TPM chip through a trusted I/O mechanism,
ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of data exchanges.
The overall architecture of the CCxTrust platform is depicted
in Figure 1b. The system incorporates multiple heterogeneous
trust roots, such as CPU TEE, GPU TEE, and TPM modules,
interconnected by encrypted PCIe channels. The system kernel and hypervisor are considered untrusted components. At
the user layer, the confidential TPM operates at the highest
privilege level within the CVM, offering TPM functionality
services through both hardware TPM and vTPM.
For standard confidential virtual machines, their operational
states are encrypted and protected by the underlying CPUTEE and GPU-TEE, leveraging the security features of the
hardware. While the internal workload state remains hidden
from external users or platform administrators, it is still considered untrusted. These CVMs can either utilize services
provided by the confidential TPM or directly interact with
the underlying hardware TPM. To ensure secure communication between multiple confidential virtual machines, each
machine’s operational environment must be verified through
a attestation mechanism before establishing a communication
channel, thereby ensuring confidentiality and integrity. This
design integrates the trust roots of the CPU-TEE, GPU-TEE,
and TPM in a coordinated manner, providing an efficient,
secure, and scalable solution for confidential computing interconnection, capable of meeting data security requirements in
multi-node, heterogeneous environments.
To address Q1, CCxTrust introduces S1: Collaborative
Trust Root (detailed in Section 5.1). By establishing a collaborative trust root based on TEE and TPM, the system creates

Threat Model

Similar to the threat model of traditional CVMs, the Trusted
Computing Base (TCB) consists only of the virtual machine
protected by the TEE, hardware devices within the SoC, and
the TPM chip, and it assumes that the confidential TPM is
secure. It also assumes that the CVMs will not intentionally
leak sensitive data.
We assume that an attacker has physical access to the server,
enabling direct access to host memory, peripherals, or buses,
and privileged control over the entire software stack. This
allows attacks on the virtualization layer, OS, VM images,
firmware, and the CVM. Malicious management software
could also eavesdrop on, tamper with, or block communication between the TPM/vTPM and the confidential TPM. The
4

(a) Physical Access Method

(b) System Architecture

Figure 1: Overall System Architecture
a user-controlled trust framework. Specifically, the Certificate
Authority (CA) for the confidential computing cluster nodes
functions as both the OCA (Owner Certificate Authority) for
TEE and the Privacy CA for TPM. During the registration,
platform identity authentication is conducted, and the secure
management of confidential computing nodes validates TEE
signatures directly, bypassing the need to verify the TEE
certificate chain. In this collaborative architecture, the RTM
independently measures the system’s critical components, ensuring the process remains unaffected by other components.
The RTS is jointly managed by TEE and TPM, integrating
attestation reports through composite attestation to ensure
the integrity and confidentiality of the reports. The RTS is
managed by TPM, which securely stores keys and sensitive
data. TPM provides secure storage and encryption services
to TEE, ensuring that data remains hardware-protected even
after leaving the TEE, preventing leakage or tampering.
To address Q2, we propose S2: Confidential TPM (CTPM)
(detailed in Section 5.2). By offering multiple modes of operation, CTPM provides a robust trust foundation for upperlayer CVMs. Specifically, it supports both hardware TPM
passthrough mode and vTPM mode, offering flexible security guarantees tailored to different application scenarios.In
passthrough mode, key negotiation enables outputs to be directly stored from the kernel TLS layer to shared memory
without duplicating any payloads. In vTPM mode, critical
vTPM data is persistently stored by mounting an encrypted
file system to the CTPM. Additionally, the CTPM includes a
random number manager capable of generating and configuring high-quality seed keys.
To address Q3, we propose S3: Composite Attestation (detailed in Section 5.3). By combining static and dynamic trust
chains and leveraging the strengths of TPM and TEE, we
establish a robust trust system. This system is anchored in
the trust root provided by the Owner CA, ensuring security
throughout the device’s lifecycle, from boot to application
runtime. The TPM establishes initial trust using its Endorse-

ment Key (EK), while the TEE performs trust initialization
through the Platform Security Processor (PSP). In the static
trust chain phase, the TEE measures the integrity of the underlying environment and passes the results to the TPM. In the
dynamic trust chain phase, the TPM provides real-time measurements to ensure the ongoing trustworthiness of the computing environment. The evidence from both phases is then
combined and signed as a unified attestation report, which
is presented externally. This process integrates the reports
from both components, preventing tampering or malicious
splicing during attestation, thereby ensuring the security of
the runtime environment.

5

System Design

5.1

Collaborative Roots of Trust

5.1.1

Multi-root trust system

In modern cloud and confidential computing environments,
security and privacy are paramount. CVMs maintain confidentiality and integrity through hardware memory encryption and
integrity checks, while leveraging peripherals like confidential GPUs and TPM chips to bolster system security. However,
different hardware platforms typically rely on their respective
root CAs, requiring users to trust multiple root CAs. Moreover, CVMs lack a comprehensive key management system
to protect keys within the virtual machine. To address these
challenges, we propose an integrated multi-root trust system,
which unifies disparate root CAs into a cohesive framework.
TPM serves as a user-accessible trust root, providing comprehensive security protection mechanisms [5, 12, 14, 35]. In
contrast, the TEE trust root is established through the CPU,
creating a trusted isolated environment exclusively for the system’s lower layers (firmware, hypervisor, and kernel), without
direct user access. Due to insufficient authentication and security for TEE APIs, critical security-related APIs of the TEE
5

remain inaccessible to users. The CPU-TEE trust root operates under the black-box trust root assumption, limiting its
use to the system’s internal layers. In contrast, TPM offers a
broader range of security features, supporting user-facing security scenarios and compensating for the lack of user-facing
capabilities in the TEE trust root. Thus, TPM functions as
a white-box trust root, while CPU-TEE acts as a black-box
trust root. Each serves distinct security layers, with the whitebox trust root supporting both system and user security, while
the black-box trust root ensures transparency and integration
within the system’s lower layers, remaining inaccessible to
users.
In the confidential computing cluster, we propose a unified
trust framework for managing confidential computing nodes,
which is governed by the Owner Certificate Authority (OCA).
This framework establishes a TPM-protected, scalable TEE
key derivation system, providing the cryptographic foundation for secure interconnection among heterogeneous TEEs.
The node’s OCA functions as both the TEE’s OCA and the
TPM’s Privacy CA. During the registration, platform identity
authentication is conducted, enabling the secure management
of confidential computing nodes. This approach allows direct
verification of TEE signatures without the need to validate
the entire TEE certificate chain.
Taking AMD SEV as an example, the AMD Root Key
(ARK) serves as the root of trust, ensuring platform authenticity. Both application providers and end users rely on the
cloud infrastructure, which handles security-sensitive data.
However, trust is ultimately dependent on the device manufacturer, AMD. This model has vulnerabilities: (1) Manufacturer
Dependency: Users must trust the manufacturer, making security and privacy vulnerable if the manufacturer has issues
or malicious intent. The centralized trust mechanism lacks
transparency, preventing independent verification of security
guarantees. (2) Complexity in Multi-Tenant Clouds: Multitenant environments present significant challenges due to their
complex virtualization and memory management stacks. Unfortunately, vulnerabilities in critical cloud software and infrastructure are inevitable, further exacerbating the risks in
this trust model.
To integrate composite nodes with multiple roots of trust
while ensuring user-controlled trust, we propose a multi-root
trust system. In a confidential computing cluster, the OCA
serves as the core root of trust for platform ownership, managing trust for both the TEE and TPM. This dual role as both
the OCA for TEE and Privacy CA for TPM ensures consistent
trust across multiple security components, safeguarding the
overall integrity of the computing environment.
When a new node joins the cluster, it submits essential
information to the OCA, including TEE measurements, runtime details, and identity credentials. The OCA validates the
node’s trustworthiness by comparing its TEE report with the
platform trust baseline. Upon successful validation, the OCA
generates the following credentials for the node:

Figure 2: Collaborative Roots of Trust
• Identity Authentication Certificate: Uniquely identifies
the node within the cluster.
• MasterSecret: The core trust seed used for secure communication and data encryption.
After authentication, the OCA then securely distributes
these credentials, with the MasterSecret stored in the TPM’s
protected storage and sealed for additional security. The MasterSecret is subsequently used for key derivation, ensuring
secure inter-node communication and data protection across
the cluster.
During the operation of the confidential computing cluster,
the OCA is responsible for maintaining the cluster’s trusted
state through several mechanisms. After initial node authentication, identity verification is simplified by validating the
TEE signature, avoiding complex certificate chain validation.
The OCA also conducts periodic trust audits of all nodes,
comparing runtime environment measurements with expected
values and checking certificate validity. If a trust risk is identified, the OCA can revoke the certificate and alert the cluster
management system. To address long-term security, the OCA
regularly updates certificates and redistributes master keys.
This dynamic management ensures that nodes remain trusted
throughout their operation, safeguarding system integrity.
5.1.2

Collaborative roots of trust

In virtualized environments, trust management for CVMs
is a key challenge. Traditional architectures rely on a single RTR, typically provided by hardware vendors like AMD,
which only covers hardware and firmware, leaving the CVM’s
runtime environment unprotected. Although integrating TPM
can address some concerns, risks such as forged attestation or
report concatenation remain. This paper proposes a collaborative roots of trust (CRT) mechanism based on TPM and TEE.
The RTM is independently handled, while the RTR is jointly
managed by TPM and TEE, ensuring a "dual insurance"
model for both boot and runtime security. This collaborative
approach addresses the trust gap in CVMs.Additionally, the
6

RTS is provided by TPM-based secure storage, safeguarding
system and application keys. A TPM-backed cryptographic
file system (Cryptofs) further ensures persistent data protection. This multi-layered framework enhances the trust and
security of CVMs in virtualized environments.

the system monitors the integrity of the confidential workloads to prevent any potential tampering. This stage focuses
on the sensitive applications and data running inside the CVM,
including processes, configuration files, and any related confidential data in the execution environment. The system uses
TEE to perform integrity checks on these workloads, ensuring
they are not modified during runtime. If abnormalities are
detected, the system can quickly respond by comparing the
measurement values, thus preventing sensitive information
leaks.
In this overall process, TEE ensures the memory integrity
and confidentiality of the CVM, while TPM ensures the integrity of the CVM’s pre-Boot, workload, and runtime components. The CVM assumes that the hypervisor is untrusted,
and TPM measures the host machine by measuring the hypervisor and cloud-native components for enhanced security.
The CVM only measures the TEE TCB, while TPM performs
static measurements of the guest OS and workloads, thereby
extending the trust chain within the TEE environment.
• RTR: TEE & TPM Composite Attestation
For the RTR, TPM and TEE collaborate to ensure accurate verification of the system’s trusted state. TEE is responsible for reporting the integrity of its runtime environment,
including the security status of its execution. In contrast, TPM
provides trust measurements during the CVM’s boot process
and continues to offer trusted information throughout runtime.
This collaborative approach leverages both static and dynamic
trust chains, ensuring full lifecycle security assurance from
device boot to application runtime. The detailed collaborative
mechanism is described in Section 5.3.
Based on the RTR, both local and remote attestation mechanisms are employed to ensure the integrity and trustworthiness
of the confidential computing environment. Local attestation
verifies the trustworthiness of different trust zones within the
same physical host. In this mode, TEE and TPM collaborate
to perform integrity checks on the local host. TEE measures
and reports the trusted state of its runtime environment, which
is then transmitted to TPM via a secure channel. TPM integrates these measurements with trust data from the CVM
launch to generate a trusted local attestation, ensuring mutual
trust between local trust zones. Remote attestation provides
attestation of the system’s trustworthiness to external entities,
such as cloud service users or third-party verifiers. In this
process, TEE forwards its runtime measurements to TPM,
which combines this data with trust measurements from the
CVM’s launch. TPM then generates a comprehensive report
containing integrity and trust measurements, which external
verifiers use to verify the system’s trust state. The digital signature and measurement values in the report serve as evidence
that the CVM and its applications are operating in a secure
environment.
• RTS: TEE relies on TPM trusted storage
Currently, CVMs do not provide storage protection for
internal workload keys in the TEE. As a cryptographic co-

• RTM: TEE & TPM Parallel Independence
The RTM is independently handled by the TEE and TPM,
ensuring the integrity and trustworthiness of the system.
TEE is responsible for measuring the underlying hardware,
firmware, and runtime environment, focusing on the system’s
boot process and security components loaded during the CVM
boot. This ensures that the CVM boots and runs securely, free
from interference. TPM, on the other hand, measures the
CVM’s boot- and run-time workloads, capturing critical information during the CVM’s boot phase and performing dynamic
measurements throughout its operation. This division of measurement tasks allows TEE and TPM to address distinct trust
domains, reducing potential dependencies or vulnerabilities.
By independently performing these measurements, the system
establishes a comprehensive and secure trust root, reinforcing
its resilience against tampering and attacks, while ensuring
the integrity of the entire virtualization environment.
For the RTM, we have designed and extended the CVM
trust chain architecture based on TPM, proposing a threestage collaborative measurement method for CVMs based on
TEE and TPM.
The collaborative mechanism between TEE and TPM is
divided into three stages to ensure the entire trust chain of
the CVM from startup to runtime, and to prevent tampering
with key components and workloads. Each stage performs
different levels of measurement and verification of system
components to ensure the security of the CVM. Stage 1:
Static Measurement of Host System Component. Before
the CVM launch, the system measures the host’s native components that the CVM depends on to ensure they have not
been tampered with. This stage focuses on the key components of the host system, such as the hypervisor, host kernel,
and virtualization-related services. Static measurements of
these components are performed using TPM, which calculates and stores their measurement values and verifies them
before startup to ensure the host environment is in a trusted
state. Stage 2: CVM Boot Measurement. During the CVM
launch process, the system further verifies the key elements of
the virtual machine to ensure the expected CVM is correctly
started. This includes the boot measurement of the CVM’s
firmware, kernel, kernel parameters, root filesystem, and images. Particularly, the system checks the integrity and origin
of the images by verifying their digital signatures to ensure
they are from a trusted release. Ultimately, the CVM’s Launch
Measurement is generated and recorded for remote attestation
to ensure the basic components of the CVM have not been
tampered with. Stage 3: Runtime Measurement of Confidential Workloads. After the CVM boots and enters runtime,
7

Figure 4: Key Derivation and Usage
SRK from the MasterSecret, using the Owner’s SRK for protection. While this method preserves compatibility with the
existing TPM storage system, it introduces challenges in key
system deactivation. Since the CVM’s SRK is created under
the TPM Owner’s key and protected by the Owner’s SRK,
deactivating the CVM’s key system requires careful handling
of the dependency between the CVM SRK and the Owner’s
SRK. Deleting the CVM’s SRK directly could disrupt the
TPM Owner-level key structure, while retaining it may pose
security risks, such as residual key data. Additionally, as the
CVM’s MasterSecret is not stored in NV storage, restoring the
key after deactivation becomes more complex, complicating
lifecycle management and key recovery processes.
The second method, as shown in Figure 3b, introduces a
new hierarchical structure within the TPM, termed the Confidential Computing Hierarchy (CC Hierarchy), specifically
designed for confidential TPM in Confidential Computing
(CC) mode. This hierarchy establishes a separate storage key
tree for the CVM, with all platform keys protected by a registered PrimaryMasterSecret, which serves as the primary seed.
Upon the platform’s first power-up, the PrimaryMasterSecret
is generated and persistently stored in NV memory. It is then
used to protect the keys for all CVMs on the platform. A
new TPM interface, TPM2_CreateCVMKey, derives the MasterSecret for each CVM. This approach creates a dedicated
TPM CVM storage key system, with both the CC SRK and
the CVM MasterSecret stored in NV memory, while leaf node
keys for the CVM are not stored in NV. The PrimaryMasterSecret acts as the root key, generating and protecting all child
keys, ensuring independent and secure key management for
each CVM instance. By introducing a new hierarchical structure, this method is incompatible with the original TPM key
creation system and requires new interfaces for key derivation. However, it ensures that each CVM’s keys are isolated,
preventing interference and potential data leakage between
virtual machines. Furthermore, deactivating the CVM’s key
system is simplified compared to the previous approach, as it
avoids direct dependencies on the TPM Owner’s key hierarchy.
Regardless of which type of key tree system is used, there
are a variety of keys that can be derived for different purposes
based on RTS.
In the key derivation and usage process, illustrated in Figure 4, the CVM employs a secure key exchange mechanism

(a) Leverage existing storage structures

(b) Introducing a new storage hierarchy

Figure 3: TPM storage key protection structure
processor, TPM complements this gap by offering hardwarebased key storage protection for CVM applications. Therefore, for the RTS, it is entirely managed by the TPM, and
we provide two methods. The first method is hardware-based
TPM key storage protection for CVMs, providing hardwarelevel security protection. However, due to the limited TPM
RAM storage space, it cannot support large-scale CVM usage.
Therefore, we reuse the existing TPM 2.0 key storage tree
structure to derive and protect each VM’s root key. The second
method is based on TPM device-mapped confidential TPM
virtual machines. Since confidential TPMs provide custom,
dynamically adjustable storage space, they can generate independent new hierarchical structures to construct a new key
tree system. This allows each CVM to have an independent
key tree structure, ensuring that CVMs are not interconnected.
The following section provides a detailed explanation of these
two modes.
The first method, depicted in Figure 3a, leverages the existing TPM 2.0 Owner’s key storage hierarchy, with the CVM
SRK created at the second-level node. Other keys are generated within the CVM SRK in accordance with TPM 2.0 protocols. This approach enables the reuse of the existing TPM key
storage tree, ensuring compatibility with TPM while avoiding the need to store the CVM’s MasterSecret in NV storage.
However, it modifies the original key derivation structure,
where child keys, originally protected by the Owner’s SRK,
are now used as the parent key for the CVM’s application
keys. To mitigate this, we propose a new CVM SRK key interface, TPM2_CreateCVMRootKey, which derives the CVM’s
8

leveraging TEE and TPM. Initially, TEE and TPM establish a
trusted communication channel, utilizing their respective ECC
Identity Keys to perform an ECDH key exchange. This protocol facilitates mutual authentication and generates a shared
symmetric key, which is subsequently used to encrypt data
transmission and key management operations. This ensures
secure communication, protecting against man-in-the-middle
attacks and safeguarding the integrity of key distribution and
management.
Once the trusted channel is established, TPM supports the
CVM by generating and deriving necessary cryptographic
keys, including AES, HMAC, and ECDH keys, based on configuration parameters. These keys are derived according to
the TPM 2.0 key hierarchy and securely transmitted to TEE
via the trusted channel, where they are made available for
CVM applications. The key generation process adheres to
TPM 2.0 specifications, ensuring proper isolation between
keys at different levels to mitigate the risk of key leakage.
TPM also handles the encapsulation and secure storage of
CVM keys. After key generation, TPM binds the keys to a
specific state defined by the CVM and stores them persistently.
When the CVM requires key access, TPM verifies the CVM’s
evidence and unseals the corresponding key, ensuring that
only the authorized CVM in the correct state can access the
key, thus preventing unauthorized use or leakage.
For external storage, CVM keys are encrypted by TPM,
ensuring protection during storage on ordinary disks. Additionally, a TPM-based encrypted file system is used to store
CVM encryption keys, safeguarding the data while providing
flexibility for various storage media.

5.2

Figure 5: Confidential TPM Architecture
I/O overhead in CVMs consists of three main components:
1) VMExit overhead, 2) Bounce buffer overhead, and 3) Network packet processing. The first is related to virtualization,
where I/O device access triggers VMExit, causing context
switching to the hypervisor, leading to significant overhead.
The second is specific to the TEE, where hardware-encrypted
memory pages prevent untrusted entities, such as the host OS,
from accessing CVM data. To transfer data between the CVM
and the host OS, a bounce buffer mechanism is employed, introducing data copying overhead. The third overhead pertains
to network I/O devices and their specific processing, which is
typically outside the scope of CTPM concerns.
VM Exit Overhead: As noted in [33], the introduction of
posted interrupt technology in next-generation hardware significantly reduces VM Exit overhead, achieving an order-ofmagnitude improvement compared to standard CVMs. However, this overhead remains approximately double that of traditional VMs. To mitigate this, the VirtIO framework, combined
with shared memory, is employed to optimize I/O performance by minimizing hypervisor involvement. We reduce the
involvement of the hypervisor by leveraging a lightweight interface using the VirtIO mechanism, thereby lowering contextswitching costs and decreasing the frequency of VM Exits.
Within CVMs, the VirtIO driver operates directly in the guest
environment, with I/O operations initiated by signals or notifications prompting the hypervisor to process requests. Memory
access restrictions enforced via the RMP table ensure that the
hypervisor cannot tamper with I/O data, maintaining data integrity and confidentiality. Data exchange between the CVM
and the hypervisor is facilitated through a circular buffer implemented in shared memory, which is protected by the RMP
table and hardware-based memory encryption. The circular
buffer’s design ensures that while the hypervisor may access
specific fields, such as those related to interrupt notifications,
it is unable to read or modify the actual data content. To optimize performance, the circular buffer aligns with page boundaries, minimizing cross-page access overhead. The VirtIO
circular buffer mechanism supports lock-free communication
via shared memory, with strict access controls enforced by
encrypted page table mechanisms. Memory mapping adopts
a segmented design, where each segment corresponds to an

Confidential TPM

The Confidential TPM (CTPM) provides secure and efficient runtime protection for TPM usage in cloud environments. Even in the event of hypervisor compromise, when
properly configured, the CTPM ensures that sensitive data
managed by the TPM remains confined within the secure
enclave, never leaving its protected domain. CTPM supports various TPM configurations, including physical TPM
passthrough and vTPM, ensuring security for different deployment models.
(1) TPM Access
As shown in Figure 5, in TPM passthrough mode, the hardware TPM is exposed to the virtual machine as a vTPM instance. All operations of the vTPM instance are forwarded
to the underlying hardware TPM, which performs all computational and storage tasks. In vTPM mode, a software implementation of TPM is provided within the CVM, separate
from the physical TPM. This implementation, supported by
an external software stack, delivers the same functionality as
a physical TPM.
In passthrough mode, a critical consideration is the efficient
use of I/O devices within the CVM. As discussed in [33], the
9

independent I/O queue, reducing contention and enhancing
data transfer efficiency.
Bounce Buffer Overhead: Memory encryption overhead
cannot be fully mitigated through software optimizations
alone. Therefore, a trusted channel is established to enable
secure encrypted data transmission, thereby reducing the overhead associated with secondary encryption in the bounce
buffer. During initialization, the hardware TPM generates the
seed for the CC hierarchy. Upon the start of the CVM, device
authentication is performed using the Secure Platform Device
Management (SPDM) protocol, followed by key negotiation
between the TPM-generated seed and the CVM kernel. Once
the trusted channel is established, end-to-end encrypted data
transmission is facilitated through the TLS layer within the
kernel, ensuring secure communication. In terms of shared
memory, VirtIO is used to allocate a segment of memory that
is shared between the CVM and the host. This shared memory
space enables direct read/write access for both the CVM and
the host, optimizing data exchange. To further enhance memory resource utilization, dynamic memory management for
VirtIO devices is implemented, allowing the host to adjust the
size of shared memory regions based on the CVM’s varying
memory demands.
In vTPM mode, ensuring secure persistent storage is
paramount for the integrity and confidentiality of the vTPM.
The NVRAM file serves as a trusted component that stores
critical data such as keys, PCR values, seeds, and other sensitive information. As the foundational data of vTPM is stored
within the NVRAM file, safeguarding its confidentiality and
integrity is essential for the overall security of vTPM. Each
time a vTPM command is executed, the corresponding state
information is updated in the NVRAM, necessitating secure
storage and protection mechanisms.
To secure the NVRAM file in the absence of built-in secure
storage mechanisms within the CVM, an encrypted file system can be employed. Specifically, the entire virtual machine
disk can be encrypted using dm-crypt and LUKS during VM
launch. To facilitate this, dm-crypt support is integrated into
the QEMU, ensuring the encrypted dm-crypt file system is
created and mounted upon boot. The dm-crypt encryption
keys are derived and protected by the hardware TPM, and
the keys are unsealed during the VM boot process based on a
launch measurement. This mechanism ensures that the keys
are only accessible within the context of the specific VM.
In this solution, the encrypted file system enforces access control through encryption keys, securely generated and
stored by the hardware TPM, with no direct access by the
hypervisor. Upon VM boot, the decryption key is retrieved
via TPM unsealing and injected into the dm-crypt module to
unlock the file system. This binding of the key to the VM’s
launch measurements ensures that only VMs meeting the
specified criteria can access the file system, providing robust
confidentiality for persistent NVRAM.
For the integrity of NVRAM, only specific confidential

virtual machines are allowed to modify the NVRAM stored in
the encrypted file system. However, attacks such as physical
disk replacement are not considered within the scope of this
solution.
(2) Storage Protection
After solving the issue of integrating the CTPM, the next
consideration is what content to save to NVRAM for persistent storage.
The TPM key storage protection system uses a digital envelope to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and correspondence of keys. The primary key protects subordinate keys
with a symmetric key, and an HMAC key ensures integrity.
However, this approach lacks protection for third-level keys,
as subordinate keys are only secured in relation to their parent
key. When the seed is changed, the second- and third-level
keys derived from the original seed remain valid, posing a
potential security risk.
To enable user control over the trust system and enhance
random number seed quality, a random number manager is
integrated within the cTPM. This manager generates highquality seeds using a hardware noise source and user-defined
parameters, ensuring seed randomness and unpredictability.
Additionally, it supports dynamic adjustment of the random
number generation strategy across key levels, addressing the
key management requirements of different CVMs while providing robust security guarantees.
During TPM initialization, seed values for the four platforms (Confidential, Endorsement, Storage, and Platform Hierarchical) are generated and stored in NV with an associated
version number or timestamp. Whenever the seed is updated,
the version number is incremented or the timestamp is updated to ensure that each key chain can recognize the seed
update. Each derived key blob needs to store an associated
version number or timestamp. The validity of a key object
depends not only on the parent key but also on comparing it
with the current seed version. If the key blob’s version number
does not match the current seed version, the system will reject
access to that key.
In the CC hierarchical, the seed value and timestamp are
used by the random number manager to derive child key
seeds, which are stored in NV. Critical key contexts, metadata
(e.g., usage permissions, expiration), and sensitive information, such as user-defined policies, authorization data, and
key usage counters, must also be saved to NVRAM. Policies
govern key usage frequency and permissions, while authorization data controls access to keys, preventing misuse. The key
usage counter helps track usage, mitigating risks of leakage or
reuse. Additionally, system state and fault recovery information, including access control policies and the health status of
key components, must be saved to ensure quick recovery from
system abnormalities. These measures enhance key security,
fine-grained control, and system recoverability, bolstering the
overall TPM system’s reliability and security.
(3) Key Provisioning
10

attestations.
The composite attestation method combines the advantages
of TEE and TPM, creating a composite trust system that integrates both static and dynamic trust chains, as shown in Figure
7. The RoT of TEE and TPM are provided by the Owner CA,
with TEE initialized using the PEK, while TPM establishes
initial trust through the AIK and EK. Ultimately, a composite
attestation report is generated by combining the measurement
values of both TEE and TPM. The diagram summarizes the
process of our composite attestation protocol, which consists
of two stages: Initialization and Attestation.
(1) Initialization phase
The TEE generates a unique VCEK during initialization,
derived from the ASP and microcode version. The VCEK is
signed by the ASK, which is in turn signed by the AMD ARK,
forming the root of the certificate chain. The OCA verifies
the certificate chain’s legitimacy and generates the CertVCEK ,
which is securely sent to the TEE.
Similarly, during TPM initialization, the seed key EPSeed
is generated, and the TPM_Manufacture(EPSeed) function is
executed locally to initialize the EK. The EK is then used to securely generate the attestation key AIK. The RegistrarAIK
function interacts with the OCA to securely obtain the AIK
certificate CertAIK . The AIK public key (AIK pub ) and the AIK
certificate (CertAIK ) are then sent to the verifier, who can
verify the authenticity of the AIK using the certificate.
The RegistrarAIK process is as follows:
TPM first sends AIK pub , EK pub , and EKcert to the
OCA. After verifying the authenticity of EK pub ,
OCA randomly generates a nonce n and executes
MakeCredential(n, H(AIK pub ), EK pub ), to create a challenge that can only be unsealed when both AIK and
EK are present in the TPM, then sends the challenge m to the TPM. In response, TPM executes
ActivateCredential(m, H(AIK pub ), EK), to
unseal the
challenge, obtaining n′ , and sends it back to the OCA. OCA
then verifies whether n matches n′ , and if they are equal,
signs AIK pub and sends the signed certificate CertAIK to the
TPM. Finally, TEE signs the PEK, and sends the certificate
CertT EE and the public key PEK pub to the verifier.
(2) Attestation phase
Attestation provides two optional protocols: Attestationtee-tpm demonstrates the process of embedding the SEV report into the TPM Quote, while Attestation-tpm-tee illustrates
the process of embedding the TPM Quote into the SEV report.
Attestation-TEE-TPM Protocol
1. The verifier initiates the attestation process by sending an
AttestationRequest to the TPM. This request include optional parameters such as selected PCR values, which specify
the state of the system components to be attested.
2. Upon receiving the request, the TPM sends a
GuestReportRequest to the TEE, which responds with a
measurement report (TEE_Report) containing the TEE’s
launch measurement. This report is signed using the VCEK,

Figure 6: TEE and TPM Independent Attestation of Existence
Attacks
Once configured, the cTPM provides key provisioning for
the CVM through an encrypted session, establishing a trusted
channel for secure key transmission. Access to the keys is
strictly controlled, ensuring only authorized CVMs can use
them, thereby protecting data confidentiality and integrity.
When a CVM uses an peripherals GPU, the cTPM generates an attestation report containing measurements of the
GPU’s hardware, driver version, and software integrity. The
cTPM records these measurements in its PCR to prevent tampering. The attestation report is signed by the cTPM to ensure
its integrity and authenticity. The CVM verifies the report
by validating the signature and confirming its trusted source.
If the verification is successful, the CVM can securely utilize the external GPU, ensuring a trusted and secure runtime
environment for confidential computing.

5.3

Composite Attestation

To unify multiple different RoT, we have built a collaborative attestation service framework combining TEE and TPM.
This framework provides unified attestation services and verification by offering a unified trusted attestation token and
protected platform secret information. It addresses the challenge of unified attestation and verification for heterogeneous
TEE platforms, TPM nodes, and composite nodes such as
SGX+TPM/SEV+TPM. This framework lays the trust foundation for confidential interconnection between large-scale
confidential computing cluster nodes and facilitates the secure
sharing of confidential data.
For the collaboration between TEE and TPM, we propose a
composite attestation protocol between TEE and TPM. When
TEE and TPM provide independent attestations for the same
node, attackers may spoof the ID of the CVM to launch attacks or perform report concatenation attacks, as shown in
Figure 6. Additionally, independent attestations require two
separate data copies, context switches, kernel calls, signatures,
and report returns, which means two interactions between the
agent and the hardware. In contrast, with the composite attestation, only one agent call is needed, with the kernel completing
the composite and returning a unified attestation report, resulting in much higher efficiency compared to independent
11

Figure 7: Composite Attestation Protocol
ensuring the authenticity of the report.
3. The TPM then performs a TPM_Quote, which measures
the current runtime environment, including the state of the
TPM itself and the platform configuration. The TPM_Report
is generated and includes the TEE_Report as part of the measurement to provide an integrated view of both the TPM and
TEE states.
4. The verifier, acting as the Attestation Service (AS), receives the TPM_Report and validates its authenticity. The
AS verifies the integrity of the TPM_Report using the TPM’s
public keys and checks that the TEE_Report is signed by the
VCEK. Once validated, the AS generates a validation token,
confirming the trustworthiness of the reported environment.
Attestation-TEE-TPM Protocol
1. The verifier initiates the attestation process by sending an
AttestationRequest to the TEE. This request may include
optional parameters such as selected PCR values, allowing
the verifier to request specific platform measurements.
2. In response, the TEE forwards a TPMQuoteRequest to
the TPM. This request may include PCR selection values
that determine which measurements should be included in
the quote. The TPM generates a Quote, which includes a
measurement of the TPM’s state and the current platform
configuration.
3. The TEE measures the current runtime environment,
which includes both the TEE state and any other relevant
system components. It then composite the TPM’s Quote into
the generated TEE_Report, ensuring that both the TEE and
TPM measurements are presented together.
4. The AS validates the TEE_Report by checking the au-

Figure 8: Token Example
thenticity and integrity of the report. This includes verifying
the signature and ensuring that the Quote was issued by a
TPM. Once validated, the AS generates a validation token
that confirms the trustworthiness of the platform and its associated components.
Upon successful attestation, the AS issues a unified attestation token in JWT format, as illustrated in Figure 8. The
token comprises three parts. token_header: Encodes metadata
such as validity period, certificate details, and token format
to prevent reuse of expired tokens. token_payload: Contains
a detailed attestation report, compositing the results of both
TEE and TPM attestations, along with essential platform information. token_signature: Signed by the AS to ensure token
integrity, serving as a credential for trusted nodes to authenticate and authorize subsequent requests. The token binds the
composite attestation report with contextual data, including
timestamps and attestation type, effectively mitigating risks
of forgery and concatenation attacks in composite attestation
scenarios.
12

For the CTPM, in passthrough mode, the hardware TPM
generates the CC hierarchy seed during initialization. When
the CVM starts, the SPDM protocol facilitates device authentication and key negotiation to establish a trusted channel.
This ensures encrypted data transmission over the bus, utilizing the kernel TLS layer to guard against eavesdropping and
tampering. SPDM employs mutual authentication, message
integrity checks, random numbers, and counters to prevent
man-in-the-middle and replay attacks. These mechanisms
ensure only legitimate hosts and virtual machines communicate securely, safeguarding data integrity and confidentiality
during transmission.
Shared memory in the CVM is dynamically managed via
virtIO devices to meet varying memory demands. Physicallayer encryption and integrity protection secure shared memory, preventing unauthorized access and tampering even in the
event of bus attacks. Dynamic memory resizing minimizes the
exposed memory range, reducing the attack surface. Furthermore, encrypting memory during allocation and deallocation
ensures data remains secure when transferred between devices, strengthening defenses against bus-level attacks.
As a result, in our system, attempts by attackers to perform
tampering or man-in-the-middle attacks via the bus will not
lead to the leakage of the system’s confidential information.
(2) Privilege-level attacks:
When attackers gain administrator privileges, they can access system resources with high-level permissions, posing a
severe threat to confidential virtual machines.
Attackers may replace CVMs images with backdoored
versions or roll back firmware to exploit vulnerabilities. To
mitigate these threats, our system employs a three-phase measurement process that includes comprehensive launch measurements, such as image hashes and firmware versions. During image loading and updates, public key-based signature
verification ensures only trusted images are executed, thwarting backdoor attacks. Unsigned or tampered images fail verification, and rollback detection mechanisms trigger alerts,
preventing the CVM from running in an unsafe environment.
Encryption keys are securely generated and managed by the
cTPM, ensuring that even if the image is replaced, attackers
cannot access critical data. If tampering is detected, session
keys are discarded, and new ones are generated, nullifying
potential misuse of stolen keys.
In pass-through mode, the CTPM establishes an end-to-end
encrypted connection with the physical TPM, ensuring that
even host-level attackers cannot access or compromise the
encryption channel. Secure key storage within the physical
TPM prevents decryption of transmitted data. In vTPM mode,
sensitive data is stored in an encrypted file system, with keys
exclusively managed within the cTPM. This design prevents
attackers with administrative privileges from accessing or
decrypting confidential data, even if they gain file system
access. The cTPM’s isolated key management mechanism
ensures keys remain inaccessible to the hypervisor and other

Figure 9: Modifications to the TPM2 structure to support
composite attestation
5.3.1

Interface design

In order to implement the composite attestation protocol
described in the previous section, we need to modify the
relevant structures of the TPM and TEE, shown as in Figure
9.
Taking TPM as the Master Report Root as an example,
we extended the TPMS_QUOTE_INFO interface and defined it as TPMS_CCQUOTE_INFO. On top of the original
TPM2_Quote command, we defined an extended command
called TPM2_CCQuote.
To integrate the TEE report into the TPM, we added
a new parameter teeReport to the TPMS_QUOTE_INFO
structure, as illustrated. Its structure is defined as
TPM2B_TEE_REPORT, which, like other TPM2B structures, is a variable-length array with a maximum size of
MAX_TEE_REPORT_SIZE. When the size field is set to
0, it indicates that the quote does not include the TEE report.
The new interface, TPM2_CCQuote, is used to initiate composite attestation, taking the TEE attestation report as UserData(TPM2B_DATA) input. Through this new
TPM2_CCQuote interface, the attestation response package
generates a final composite report, as represented below:
Totalreport =T PM2_CCQuote<AIK> (PCRSel,
nonce, T EE_Report)

(1)

To integrate the TPM report into the TEE report, corresponding support from the TEE module is required. For instance, in AMD SEV, the TPM quote report can be incorporated into the SEV report by using it as guest-provided data
or storing it in the Reserved section.

6

Security Analysis

Conventional physical TPMs operate independently of the
CPU, executing security tasks in isolation. Our approach enhances security by integrating TEE and TPM into a collaborative trust system. In this section, we will analyze the security
of our solution. Our solution does not consider side channel attacks against the platform. Based on the threat model,
attacker behavior is classified into four categories.
(1) Physical attacks on the bus
CVM employs memory encryption technology to protect
memory contents at the hardware level. An independent security processor manages encryption, ensuring that even if
attackers gain direct access to the memory bus, they cannot
decrypt the data.
13

VMs, effectively mitigating risks of key leaks from privilege
escalation.
Strict isolation between the CVM hosting the cTPM and
the host machine prevents privileged operations from accessing or tampering with the cTPM’s data and functionality. This
virtualization-based isolation mitigates privileged attacks, ensuring that even host-level attackers cannot compromise the
cTPM.
By combining virtualization isolation, secure key management, and end-to-end encryption, the system safeguards internal data and encryption keys. These measures effectively
prevent attackers with elevated privileges from stealing or
tampering with confidential information, ensuring robust protection against privilege escalation attacks.
(3) Workload-based attacks
Attackers may exploit software vulnerabilities within a
CVM to control workloads or target the guest kernel, attempting to access cTPM data. To counter such threats, the CVM
utilizes the third phase of the three-phase measurement process, enabling dual attestation of workloads. This mechanism
promptly detects anomalies in guest kernels or applications,
triggering isolation or key resets to safeguard sensitive data.
The cTPM employs a hierarchical key management mechanism with logically separated key structures. Each CVM
maintains an independent RTS, ensuring that keys from one
CVM cannot be accessed by another. Even if attackers control
a workload, the isolated key hierarchy prevents escalation to
root keys, maintaining the security of other layers and CVMs.
Through dual attestation and isolated key management, the
system ensures that attackers controlling specific workloads
cannot compromise overall CVM security or propagate key
leaks across hierarchical layers.
(4) Attacks on the composite attestation protocol
The composite attestation framework leverages the RoT
of TEE and TPM to ensure hardware-level integrity and authenticity, effectively mitigating attacks such as CVM impersonation and report splicing. Certification chains for PEK
and AIK are validated via the Owner CA, establishing trust
and ensuring the correlation and uniqueness of trust roots.
Attestation reports combine measurements from TEE and
TPM, preventing forgery or substitution of individual reports,
thereby ensuring a malicious VM cannot falsify a trusted
environment. In addition, the TEE and TPM report are compounded, so reports from both components can be obtained
in one execution, thus avoiding malicious splicing by attackers. A JWT-format attestation token, signed by the attestation
service, binds details such as validity period, certificate information, and hardware version. This ensures token validity
and tamper resistance, preventing the reuse of expired tokens.
These mechanisms collectively defend against forgery and
splicing attacks, maintaining the authenticity of attestation
results in confidential computing environments.
Regarding the attacks against the protocol, we discuss the
proof of Confidential Computing Composite Attestation Pro-

tocol using the Protocol Composition Logic (PCL) [18]. We
first model the Initialization and Attestation of the two subprotocols of the protocol, and analyze the invariants and security properties of the two sub-protocols, and finally prove the
security properties.
1. Protocol modeling
Within the overall scheme, there exist four participating
entities, namely Owner CA, TEE, TPM, and Verifier, denoted
as Ĉ, Ê, P̂, and V̂ respectively. The modeling details of the
two sub-protocols are presented in Appendix A.
2. Invariants and security properties
• Protocol invariants
The invariant Γinit describes that if the entity X̂ is capable
of decrypting an encrypted message, then the entity must
possess the corresponding decryption key.
Γinit ≡ Honest(X̂) ∧ Decrypt(X, ENCK (m))

(2)
⊃ Has(X̂, K −1 )
Analogous to Γinit , the invariant Γattest,1 stipulates that in
the event that the entity X̂ is competent in decrypting an
encrypted message, it necessarily holds the corresponding
decryption key.
Γattest,1 ≡ Honest(X̂) ∧ Decrypt(X, ENCK (msg))

(3)
⊃ Has(X̂, K −1 )
The invariant Γattest,2 postulates that in the circumstance
where the entity X̂ engenders the Total_Report, it implies
that the entity has received the attestation request antecedent
to the generation of the report.
Γattest,2 ≡ Honest(X̂)
∧ Sign(X, SIGK −1 (Total_Report))
X

⊃ Receive(X, request)

(4)

> Sign(X, SIGK −1 (Total_Report))
X

• Protocol security properties
In the initialization protocol, the outcome of the protocol
is the generation of certificates for TEE and TPM. The security objective of the initialization protocol is formalized in
the form of the correctness of certificate issuance. The subsequent part presents the assurance provided by Owner CA
with respect to the correctness of certificate issuance.
Theorem 1 Correctness of certificate issuance. Under the
assumption of the Owner CA identity, the initialization protocol ensures the accuracy of the issuance of platform identity
certificates, formally, init ⊢ [TEEinit ]C φinit,correct .
φinit,correct ≡ Honest(X̂) ∧ Has(X̂, certC )
−1
⊃ Has(X̂, KEK
) ∧ Send(Ĉ, msg)

(5)

∧ Contains(msg, cert)
Theorem 1 reveals that following the execution of the initialization protocol, provided that an honest entity acquires
an identity certificate, it implies that the certificate is issued
by Owner CA and the entity is in possession of a legitimate
14

EK. In the theorem, KEK is a generalized term, which can be
either the EK of TPM or the VCEK of TEE.
Theorem 2 Correctness of token issuance. In the case
of assuming the identity of Verifier, Attestation protocol
guarantees the correctness of token issuance upon the successful completion of remote attestation, formally, attest ⊢
[Verifierattest ]V φattest,correct .
φattest,correct ≡ Honest(X̂) ∧ Has(X̂,token)
⊃ Has(X̂, KXV ) ∧ Send(V̂ , msg)

(6)

∧ Contains(msg,token)
Theorem 2 indicates that after the completion of the Attestation protocol, if the verified entity holds a token, it implies
that the token is issued by the Verifier and the entity is in
possession of a legitimate symmetric encryption key KXV for
the secure channel with the Verifier.
Theorem 3 Integrity of token content. In the role of Verifier, Attestation protocol secures the integrity of issued token content upon successful remote attestation, formally,
attest ⊢ [Verifierattest ]V φattest,integrality .

(a) Basic Cryptographic

φattest,integrality ≡ Honest(X̂)
∧ Sign(X, SIGK −1 (Total_Report))
X

∧ Has(X̂,token)
⊃ (Send(V, V̂ , X̂, request)

(7)

> Sign(X, SIGAIK −1 (Total_Report)

(b) Comparison of TPM

∧ Sign(V, SIGK −1 (token))

Figure 10: Basic Cryptographic Performance
Core(TM) i9-9980HK 2.40GHz processor, 32GB of memory, and a 2TB hard disk, with the host kernel being version
5.15.0-105-generic.
We implemented the Confidential TPM and the composite
attestation between TEE and TPM based on the Microsoft
TPM simulator ms-tpm-20-ref. To implement the encrypted
file system and the corresponding key derivation functionality,
we deleted 10 lines of code and introduced 107 lines of new
code. To integrate the TEE report into the TPM attestation,
we added 271 lines of Rust code and 61 lines of C code.

V

Theorem 3 posits that upon the completion of the Attestation protocol, if the verified entity X generates a attestation
report, it implies that X has received an attestation request
from Verifier before generating the report, and the final token
is signed and issued by the Verifier.
The proof of the theorem is presented in detail in Appendix
A. Given the similarity in the proof procedures of Theorem
1 and Theorem 2, we primarily focus on demonstrating the
security properties of the Attestation protocol. The proof
procedures of Theorem 2 and Theorem 3 are illustrated in
Appendix A, and the proof of Theorem 1 can be accomplished
by referring to that of Theorem 2. The proof in Appendix A is
based on the example of Attestation-tpm-tee, with Attestationtee-tpm being analogous.

7

7.1

Basic Cryptographic Performance

We first tested our cryptographic library and compared the
key derivation performance between our developed library
(kms_crypto), and OpenSSL, using version 1.1.1f. Each result
was averaged over 10 executions. The results, as shown in
the Figure 10a below, indicate that our cryptographic library,
kms_crypto, outperforms OpenSSL in all tested items. Specifically, our library has effectively optimized the key derivation
algorithm, making key generation 58.2% faster than OpenSSL.
Through these improvements, kms_crypto provides faster performance in key generation operations, better meeting the
demands for high performance and high security.
We tested the performance of various TPMs, including
simulators, USB, and PCIe physical chips, as well as CTPM.

Implementation and Evaluation

In this section, we focus on the main overheads of CCxTrust in various scenarios. Our experimental setup consists
of an SNP-enabled server, a TPM chip, and a mobile workstation. The SNP server is equipped with an AMD EPYC
7763 64-core processor, 128GB of memory, and 4TB of disk
storage. The host kernel uses version 6.12.0-rc4-snp-host5a170ce1a082, while the guest kernel is the same as the
host kernel. The TPM 2.0 chip used is the GuoMin Technology Z32H330TC. The mobile workstation uses an Intel(R)
15

Table 1: Average Attestation Operation Latency (ms).

Attestation
Verification

TEE
10
7

TPM
15
11

TEE+TPM
19
16
(b) Handling concurrent requests
(a) Concurrency performance

from different nodes

Figure 12: Attested concurrency capability: Among them, the
"concurrent attestation time" refers to the total time from the
initiation of the challenge to the completion of the attestation and the receipt of the validation success message; the
"concurrent attestation processing time" refers to the time the
attestation server takes to process the attestation evidence and
generate the token; the "Token issuance time" refers to the
time required for the attestation server to issue the token.
attestation reports were collected on a unified system using a
standard kernel. As expected, the composite attestation protocol time is 24% faster than the total time of individual
attestations, demonstrating much higher attestation efficiency
compared to separate TEE and TPM independent attestations.
To test the concurrency capability of the attestation server,
we simulated concurrent tests with different numbers of TPM
nodes to evaluate and verify the server’s performance and
stability in a concurrent environment. Each test group was
executed 10 times, and the average time was taken to ensure
the reliability of the results. The test results are shown in the
Figure 12a below. The results show that the attestation server
supports concurrent attestations for confidential computing
clusters with over 10,000 nodes, with a concurrent attestation
performance of no more than 1.2 seconds per request, token
generation time of no more than 100 microseconds, and an
average verification time of less than 0.3 milliseconds.
We evaluated the performance of concurrent requests from
TPM and SEV nodes, focusing on attestation processing time
and concurrent attestation time. Attestation processing time
refers to the time taken by the server to process attestation
evidence, verify its validity, and generate the attestation report.
Concurrent attestation time represents the total time from the
initiation of the attestation challenge to receiving the response.
To improve clarity, we logarithmically transformed the concurrent attestation time, i.e., LOG(time/ms). Results indicated
that the attestation report verification for SEV nodes took
longer than for TPM nodes, with SEV processing around 1
ms and TPM around 300 ms. For concurrent attestation time,
TPM showed a one-order-of-magnitude longer processing
time compared to SEV, due to TPM evidence generation by a
physical chip and SEV by the CPU processor. Despite these
differences, both TPM and SEV nodes’ processing times remained within acceptable limits. As the number of nodes
increased, the performance of the attestation server remained
stable, effectively supporting concurrent attestation in largescale cluster environments.

Figure 11: Hash value of the file during the three-stage measurement
The Microsoft Reference Implementation for TPM 2.0 was
used for the simulator, with TSS based on Intel tpm2-tss 3.2.0.
Asymmetric cryptography (ECC) and SHA256 hash were
employed, using a 32-byte file size as the baseline. For better
visualization, we logarithmically processed the TPM processing times (i.e., LOG(time/ms)). Results showed that generating AIK and importing AK for nodes took considerable
time, while signature and quote operations were within an
acceptable range, and verification and unsealing times were
relatively quick. The simulator, operating at the software level
without hardware restrictions, exhibited better performance
with shorter operation times. USB-based TPMs performed
worse due to bandwidth limitations and higher communication latency. In contrast, PCIe-based TPMs outperformed
USB chips due to PCIe’s higher bandwidth and lower latency,
making them more suitable for high-performance computing.
CVM showed a 10-20% performance decrease due to memory
encryption overhead. The CTPM solution, when integrated
with the hardware TPM chip, incurs a performance overhead
of 16.47% compared to the fully virtualized vTPM, which is
within an acceptable range.

7.2

Attestation Performance

We establish a baseline for the attestation operation performance using AMD SEV-SNP and vTPM. We compare it with
the attestation time of the composite protocol, as shown in
the table 1. Based on the RTM, we implement a three-stage
measurement for the confidential computing platform, and the
measurement results are shown in the Figure 11. Additionally,
16

(a) Key negotiation performance

(b) Transfer data performance

Figure 14: TEE&TPM Key Negotiation Performance
increases linearly with the size of the data file. In terms of performance for operating on a 10MB data file, AES 128 CBC
encryption and decryption have relatively low throughput, at
13.11 MBps, especially during the encryption process. In contrast, HMAC operations have an extremely high throughput
of 615.81 MBps for the same data size.

Figure 13: TEE&TPM Building Secure Channel Performance

7.3

Application Performance

Next, we studied the latency when the TPM chip establishes a connection with the confidential TPM. As shown
in the Figure 13, we first compared the time differences between the native SPDM protocol in the SNP, based on several average results. We then compared the modified SPDM
and the native SPDM by modifying the GET_CERTIFICATE
to retrieve the full certificate chain, GET_MEASUREMENT to
obtain the attestation report, using the certificate chain to
validate the attestation report, and checking whether the measurement values in the attestation report are as expected. The
experimental results show that the time for the modified stage
increased, but the overall connection establishment time increased by 12.7%. By enhancing the GET_CERTIFICATE and
GET_MEASUREMENT processes, the security of the authentication process was significantly improved. Although the time
for certain stages slightly increased, the overall performance
remains at an acceptable level, ensuring a balance between security and efficiency when establishing connections between
devices.
Next, we establish a trusted channel between the TEE and
TPM for data transmission through key negotiation. In the
key negotiation process, both parties (TEE and TPM) use
two pairs of static keys and two pairs of ephemeral keys
for the key exchange. This protocol can be completed using the command TPM2_ZGen_2Phase(), in conjunction with
the command TPM2_EC_Ephemeral(). TPM uses the command TPM2_EC_Ephemeral() to generate ephemeral Key
and stores them in TPM memory, returning a counter value
c to the caller. In subsequent uses, the caller inputs c, and
TPM can recalculate the corresponding key. After averaging
the time for the above process, the test results are shown in
the Figure 14a below. The total time for key negotiation is
less than 1.2 ms, with the two-phase key negotiation taking
the longest time, accounting for 41% of the total time. The
performance of data file encryption and transmission after
establishing the trusted channel is shown in the following Figure 14b. As can be seen, the encrypted data transmission time

8

Related work

Secure Virtualization Systems. To build secure virtualization systems, many research efforts and commercial products have been proposed. For example, AMD SEV [1], Intel
TDX [27], and ARM CCA [4] have all implemented the CVM
abstraction through hardware extensions. The design of CCxTrust is highly versatile, supporting not only AMD SEV-SNP
but also extending to other CVM systems.
Confidential TPM. TPM is used in TEE for security
enhancement, and various methods have been proposed in
academia. CoCoTPM [40] introduces a unified architecture
for authenticating confidential virtual machines, where the
hypervisor starts a confidential virtual machine that acts as
a vTPM manager and handles all vTPM instances. SvTPM
relies on the isolation environment of SGX to run vTPM
and uses KVM to provide protection for NVRAM. The Confidential TPM in CCxTrust offers unified management of
TPMs. Unlike CoCoTPM, which manages vTPM instances, it
manages the usage and state of TPMs. Additionally, our confidential virtual machine not only supports vTPM instances
but also provides trusted access to physical TPMs, offering
stronger security features. To extend trust to devices and eliminate the overhead of bounce buffers, both academia and industry are working on enabling direct device assignment for
CVMs on top of the PCI-SIG specified TDISP [39]. Intel [26]
and AMD [2] have proposed solutions to support trusted I/O,
which can also be applied to confidential TPMs in the future
using trusted I/O methods.
Remote attestation. SVSM, in order to remove the cloud
provider from the trust domain, achieves remote attestation
of the confidential virtual machine using TEE hardware and
a temporary vTPM, allowing cloud users or third parties to
verify the state of the confidential virtual machine. However,
this approach only addresses part of the trust and application
requirements. First, at its core, it still validates the integrity
and confidentiality of the workload step by step. The TEE
17

References

hardware platform ensures that the SVSM-vTPM has not
been tampered with, and then the vTPM ensures the integrity
and confidentiality of the data and applications running in the
confidential virtual machine. This method is vulnerable to the
concatenation attack mentioned earlier. In contrast, we solve
this issue by using composite attestation, where the two attestations are combined from the bottom up, and TEE and TPM
are proven as a unified whole. Second, the SVSM-vTPM does
not establish a new trust system. The trust of the vTPM is still
tightly bound to the TEE hardware vendor, and the user can
only verify the running environment. We have built a trust
system that is controlled by the user, completely decoupling
the single trust system and fundamentally addressing the trust
challenge between cloud providers and users in multi-tenant
environments. Third, SVSM-vTPM uses a simple, temporary
vTPM without addressing the persistence issue. Since it relies
on volatile storage, there is no need to consider secret leakage
attacks. However, this approach burdens the verifier, as they
must update the validity of the verification keys each time. In
our solution, by using a confidential TPM, we support various forms of TPM functionality, addressing communication
between the confidential virtual machine and the confidential
TPM, as well as TPM state management, ensuring the security
of the TPM throughout its entire lifecycle.

9

[1] AMD. Amd sev-snp: Strengthening vm isolation with
integrity protection and more. https://www.amd.com/
en/developer/sev.html, 1 2020.
[2] AMD. Sev-tio: Trusted i/o for secure encrypted virtualization. https://www.amd.com/system/files/
documents/sev-tio-whitepaper.pdf, 3 2023.
[3] ARM. Learn the architecture - trustzone for aarch64.
Online: ARM Documentation, 2021.
[4] ARM.
Arm confidential compute architecture
(cca).
https://www.arm.
com/architecture/security-features/
arm-confidential-compute-architecture,
6
2023.
[5] AWS. Aws nitro system. https://aws.amazon.com/
ec2/nitro/, 2 2024.
[6] Azure.
Azure
confidential
vms.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/
azure/confidential-computing/
confidential-vm-overview, 10 2024.
Online;
accessed Nov 29, 2024.
Birkholz, D.
Thaler, M.
Richardson,
[7] H.
N. Smith, and W. Pan.
Remote attestation
procedures architecture.
Available online at
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/pdf/
draft-ietf-rats-architecture-22,
September 2022.

Conclusion

To address the challenges of data security and trust gaps
in cloud environments, this paper proposes CCxTrust, a confidential computing platform based on a collaborative trust
root of TEE and TPM. CCxTrust constructs a collaborative
trust system between TEE and TPM, independently measuring trust roots, coordinating report trust roots, and providing
storage trust roots via TPM, thereby achieving mutual authentication, trusted channels, and key provisioning mechanisms
between hardware trust roots. Additionally, by supporting
multi-mode confidential TPMs and an efficient composite
attestation protocol, CCxTrust enhances security while improving attestation efficiency. Prototype implementation results on AMD SEV-SNP show that CCxTrust significantly
strengthens cloud data security with minimal performance
overhead, eliminates trust gaps, and provides a more reliable
trust foundation for confidential data sharing and multi-party
collaboration. While our work is specific to AMD, similar
methods can be used to build collaborative trust roots on other
confidential virtual machines.

[8] Robert Buhren, Christian Werling, and Jean-Pierre
Seifert. Insecure until proven updated: analyzing amd
sev’s remote attestation. In Proceedings of the 2019
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 1087–1099, 2019.
[9] Guoxing Chen and Yinqian Zhang. Mage: Mutual attestation for a group of enclaves without trusted third
parties. In 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 22), pages 4095–4110. USENIX Association,
2022.
[10] Guoxing Chen, Yinqian Zhang, and Ten-Hwang Lai.
Opera: Open remote attestation for intel’s secure enclaves. In Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
pages 2317–2331. ACM SIGSAC, 2019.
[11] Sanchuan Chen, Fangfei Liu, Zeyu Mi, Yinqian Zhang,
Ruby B Lee, Haibo Chen, and XiaoFeng Wang. Leveraging hardware transactional memory for cache sidechannel defenses. In Proceedings of the 2018 on Asia
Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
pages 601–608, 2018.

Acknowledgements
Supported by National Key R&D Program of China
(2022YFB4501500, 2022YFB4501501).
18

[12] Alibaba Cloud. Alibaba cloud security white paper.
https://alicloud-common.oss-ap-southeast-1.
aliyuncs.com/2021/Whitepaper/Alibaba%
20Cloud%20Security%20Whitepaper%20-%
20International%20Edition%20V2.1%20%282021%
29.pdf, 2 2021.

[23] Information security technology—functionality and interface specification of cryptographic support platform
for trusted computing. Standard, Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China, China,
April 2022.
[24] Guerney DH Hunt, Ramachandra Pai, Michael V Le,
Hani Jamjoom, Sukadev Bhattiprolu, Rick Boivie, Laurent Dufour, Brad Frey, Mohit Kapur, Kenneth A Goldman, et al. Confidential computing for openpower. In
Proceedings of the Sixteenth European Conference on
Computer Systems, pages 294–310, 2021.

[13] Google
Cloud.
Confidential computing
overview.
https://cloud.google.
com/confidential-computing/docs/
confidential-computing-overview, 2024. Online;
accessed Nov 29, 2024.
[14] Google Cloud. Validating instances using cloud
monitoring. https://cloud.google.com/compute/
confidential-vm/docs/monitoring, 2024. Online;
accessed Nov 29, 2024.
[15] Confidential Computing Consortium.
A technical analysis of confidential computing. Available
online
at
https://confidentialcomputing.
io/wp-content/uploads/sites/85/2021/03/
CCC-Tech-Analysis-Confidential-Computing-V1.
pdf, January 2021. v1.1.
[16] Inclavare Containers. Rats-tls. Available online at
https://github.com/inclavare-containers/
rats-tls, 2021.

[25] IBM.
Ibm documentation – introducing
ibm secure execution for linux.
https:
//www.ibm.com/docs/en/linux-on-systems?
topic=virtualization-secure-execution,
4
2024.
[26] Intel.
Intel® tdx connect architecture specification.
https://www.intel.com/content/
www/us/en/content-details/773614/
intel-tdx-connect-architecture-specification.
html, 2023.
[27] Intel.
Intel® Trust Domain Extensions (Intel
TDX).
https://www.intel.com/content/
www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/
intel-trust-domain-extensions.html, 2 2023.

[17] Victor Costan and Srinivas Devadas. Intel sgx explained.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2016.

[28] Intel. Intel enhanced privacy id (epid) security technology, n.d.

[18] Anupam Datta, Ante Derek, John C Mitchell, and Arnab
Roy. Protocol composition logic (pcl). Electronic Notes
in Theoretical Computer Science, 172:311–358, 2007.

[29] ISO/IEC 11889-1:2009 information technology-trusted
platform module-part 1: Overview. Standard, Trusted
Computing Group, May 2009.

[19] FENG Dengguo, LIU Jingbin, QIN Yu, and FENG Wei.
Trusted computing theory and technology in innovationdriven development. SCIENTIA SINICA Informationis,
50(8):1127–1147, 2020.

[30] ISO/IEC 11889-1:2015 information technology-trusted
platform module-part 1: Architecture. Standard, Trusted
Computing Group, March 2014.

[20] Dengguo Feng, Yu Qin, Wei Feng, Wei Li, Ketong
Shang, and Hongzhan Ma. Survey of research on confidential computing. IET Communications, 18(9):535–
556, 2024.

[31] Hans Niklas Jacob, Christian Werling, Robert Buhren,
and Jean-Pierre Seifert. faultpm: Exposing amd ftpms’
deepest secrets. In 2023 IEEE 8th European Symposium
on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), pages 1128–1142.
IEEE, 2023.

[21] Anna Galanou, Franz Gregor, Rüdiger Kapitza, and
Christof Fetzer. Matee: Multimodal attestation for
trusted execution environments. In Proceedings of the
23rd ACM/IFIP International Middleware Conference,
pages 121–134, 2022.

[32] Liqun Chen Jose Moreira, Thanassis Giannetsos.
Futuretpm reference architecture.
Available online at https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/
779391/results, January 2018.

[22] Information security technology—functionality and interface specification of cryptographic support platform
for trusted computing. Standard, Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China, China,
2013.

[33] Dingji Li, Zeyu Mi, Chenhui Ji, Yifan Tan, Binyu Zang,
Haibing Guan, and Haibo Chen. Bifrost: Analysis and
optimization of network {I/O} tax in confidential virtual
machines. In 2023 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 23), pages 1–15, 2023.
19

[34] Mengyuan Li, Luca Wilke, Jan Wichelmann, Thomas
Eisenbarth, Radu Teodorescu, and Yinqian Zhang. A
systematic look at ciphertext side channels on amd sevsnp. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP), pages 337–351. IEEE, 2022.

[44] Haonan Sun, Rongyu He, Yong Zhang, Ruiyun Wang,
Wai Hung Ip, and Kai Leung Yung. etpm: A trusted
cloud platform enclave tpm scheme based on intel sgx
technology. Sensors, 18(11):3807, 2018.
[45] Juan Wang, Jie Wang, Chengyang Fan, Fei Yan, Yueqiang Cheng, Yinqian Zhang, Wenhui Zhang, Mengda
Yang, and Hongxin Hu. Svtpm: Sgx-based virtual
trusted platform modules for cloud computing. IEEE
Transactions on Cloud Computing, 11(3):2936–2953,
2023.

[35] Microsoft.
Microsoft azure attestation.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/
attestation/overview, 8 2024. Online; accessed
Nov 29, 2024.
[36] Masanori Misono, Dimitrios Stavrakakis, Nuno Santos,
and Pramod Bhatotia. Confidential vms explained: An
empirical analysis of amd sev-snp and intel tdx. Proc.
ACM Meas. Anal. Comput. Syst., 8(3):42, dec 2024.

[46] Wubing Wang, Mengyuan Li, Yinqian Zhang, and
Zhiqiang Lin. Pwrleak: Exploiting power reporting
interface for side-channel attacks on amd sev. In International Conference on Detection of Intrusions and
Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment, pages 46–66.
Springer, 2023.

[37] Vikram Narayanan, Claudio Carvalho, Angelo Ruocco,
Gheorghe Almási, James Bottomley, Mengmei Ye,
Tobin Feldman-Fitzthum, Daniele Buono, Hubertus
Franke, and Anton Burtsev. Remote attestation of confidential vms using ephemeral vtpms. In Proceedings of
the 39th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference, pages 732–743, 2023.
[38] NVIDIA.
Nvidia confidential computing.
Available online at https://www.
nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/solutions/
confidential-computing/, 2023.
[39] PCI-SIG.
Tee device interface security protocol (tdisp) specification.
https://pcisig.com/
tee-device-interface-security-protocol-tdisp,
7 2022.
[40] Joana Pecholt and Sascha Wessel. Cocotpm: Trusted
platform modules for virtual machines in confidential
computing environments. In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference, pages
989–998, 2022.
[41] Zhengwei Ren, Xueting Li, Li Deng, Yan Tong, Shiwei
Xu, and Jinshan Tang. Ras2p: Remote attestation via
self-measurement for sgx-based platforms. In 2022
IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and
Cybernetics (SMC), pages 2085–2092. IEEE, 2022.
[42] Ravi Sahita, Vedvyas Shanbhogue, Andrew Bresticker,
Atul Khare, Atish Patra, Samuel Ortiz, Dylan Reid, and
Rajnesh Kanwal. Cove: Towards confidential computing on risc-v platforms. In Proceedings of the 20th
ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers,
pages 315–321, 2023.
[43] Vinnie Scarlata, Simon Johnson, James Beaney, and Piotr Zmijewski. Supporting third party attestation for
intel® sgx with intel® data center attestation primitives.
White paper, page 12, 2018.
20

A

Appendix
Owner CAinit ≡(Ê, P̂, V̂ , KEC , KPC , KCV , OCA)[

Appendix A Supplementary Content for the Formal Analysis of the Confidential Computing Composite Attestation
Protocol Based on PCL. The overall analysis process is detailed in the security analysis in the main text. Throughout the
protocol, we assume that each participating entity has completed key negotiation pairwise, thereby obtaining a secure
channel based on symmetric encryption.

receive VCEKIn f o;
VCEK pub := symdec VCEKIn f o, KEC ;
certVCEK := sign VCEK pub , OCA;
certVCEKIn f o := symenc certVCEK , KEC ;
send Ĉ, Ê, certVCEKIn f o;
certT EEIn f o :=

In the Initialization protocol, with the initialization operation of the TEE as the starting point of the protocol, the
four participating entities in the Initialization protocol are
modeled one by one according to the protocol. Based on the
PCL system, the modeling of the Initialization protocol is as
follows:

symenc (certVCEK ,VCEK pub ), KCV ;
send Ĉ, V̂ , certT EEIn f o;
receive P̂, Ĉ, keyIn f o;
AIK pub , EK pub , certEK := symdec keyIn f o, KPC ;
new nonce;
challenge :=

TEEinit ≡(Ĉ, KEC )[

symenc (nonce, hash(AIK pub ), EK pub ), KPC ;

new VCEK;

send Ĉ, P̂, challenge;

VCEKIn f o := symenc VCEK pub , KEC ;
send Ê, Ĉ,VCEKIn f o;

receive P̂, Ĉ, nonceIn f o;
nonce′ := symdec nonceIn f o, KPC ;

receive Ĉ, Ê, certVCEKIn f o;

match nonce/nonce′ ;

certVCEK := symdec certVCEKIn f o, KEC ;

certAIK := sign AIK pub , OCA;

]E (V ECK, certVCEK )

certAIKIn f o := symenc certAIK , KPC ;
send Ĉ, P̂, certAIKIn f o;
]C ()

TPMinit ≡(Ĉ, V̂ , KPC , KPV , certEK )[
Verifierinit ≡(KCV , KPV )[

new EPSeed;
new EK, AIK;

receive Ĉ, V̂ , certT EEIn f o;

keyIn f o := symenc (AIK pub , EK pub , certEK ), KPC ;

certVCEK ,VCEK pub := symdec certT EEIn f o, KCV ;

send P̂, Ĉ, keyIn f o;

verify certVCEK ,VCEK pub ;

receive Ĉ, P̂, challenge;

receive P̂, V̂ , keyCertIn f o;

′

AIK pub , certAIK := symdeckeyCertIn f o, KPV ;

nonce := symdec challenge, KPC ;
′

nonceIn f o := symenc nonce , KPC ;

verify certAIK , AIK pub ;

send P̂, Ĉ, nonceIn f o;

]V (VCEK pub , certVCEK , AIK pub , certAIK )

receive Ĉ, P̂, certAIKIn f o;
In the Attestation protocol, it is divided into two options according to the aggregation method of the totalReport. Therefore, we model the protocol flows of both aggregation methods. In the Attestation protocol, there are only three participating entities. The specific formal modeling is as follows:

certAIK := symdec certAIKIn f o, KPC ;
keyCertIn f o := symenc (AIK pub , certAIK ), KPV ;
send P̂, V̂ , keyCertIn f o;
]P (EK, AIK, certAIK )
21

Verifiertee−t pm ≡(Ê, KEV , KV )[

Verifiert pm−tee ≡(P̂, KPV , KV )[
new nonce, PCRsel ;

new nonce, PCRsel ;

request := symenc (nonce, PCEsel ), KPV ;

request := symenc (nonce, PCRsel ), KEV ;

send V̂ , P̂, request;

send V̂ , Ê, request;

receive P̂, V̂ ,totalEncReport;

receive Ê, V̂ ,totalEncReport;

totalReport := symdec totalEncReport, KPV ;

totalReport := symdec totalEncReport, KEV ;

verify totalReport, AIK pub ;

verify totalReport,VCEK pub ;

token := sign

token := sign
(type,totalReport, expireTime, policy), KV−1 ;

(type,totalReport, expireTime, policy), KV−1 ;

tokenIn f o := symenc token, KEV ;

tokenIn f o := symenc token, KPV ;
send V̂ , P̂,tokenIn f o;

send V̂ , Ê,tokenIn f o;

]V ()

]V ()

TEEtee−t pm ≡(V̂ , P̂, KPV , KEV )[

TPMt pm−tee ≡(Ê, V̂ , KPV , KPE )[

receive V̂ , Ê, request;

receive V̂ , P̂, request;

nonce, PCRsel := symdec request, KEV ;

nonce, PCRsel := symdec request, KPV ;

quoteRequest := symenc (nonce, PCRsel ), KPE ;

reportRequest := symenc nonce, KPE ;

send Ê, P̂, quoteRequest;

send P̂, Ê, reportRequest;

receive P̂, Ê, T PMEncReport;

receive Ê, P̂, T EEEncReport;

T PMReport := symdec T PMEncReport, KPE ;

T EEReport := symdec T EEEncReport, KPE ;

T EETCB := (OV MF,

totalReport :=
sign (PCRsel , nonce, T EEReport), AIK −1 ;

GuestKernel, GuestInitrd, KernelCmdline);
totalReport :=

totalEncReport := symenc totalReport, KPV ;

sign (T EETCB, T PMReport, nonce),VCEK −1 ;

send P̂, V̂ ,totalEncReport;

totalEncReport := symenc totalReport, KEV ;
send Ê, V̂ ,totalEncReport;

receive V̂ , P̂,tokenIn f o;
token := symdec tokenIn f o, KPV ;

receive V̂ , Ê,tokenIn f o;

]P (token)

token := symdec tokeIn f o, KEV ;
]E (token)

TEEt pm−tee ≡(P̂, KPE )[
TPMtee−t pm ≡(Ê, KPE )[

receive P̂, Ê, reportRequest;
T EETCB := (OV MF,

receive Ê, P̂, quoteRequest;

GuestKernel, GuestInitrd, KernelCmdline);
T EEReport := sign T EETCB,V ECK

−1

nonce, PCRsel := symdec quoteRequest, KPE ;
T PMReport := sign PCRs, AIK −1 ;

;

T EEEncReport := symenc T EEReport, KPE ;

T PMEncReport := symenc T PMReport, KPE ;

send Ê, P̂, T EEEncReport;

send P̂, Ê, T PMEncReport;

]E ()

]P ()
22

(1) AA1, P1

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Send(V, V̂ , P̂,tokenIn f o)

(2) (1), AR1

⊤[tokenIn f o := symenc token, KPV ;token
:= sign (type,totalReport, expireTime,
policy), KV−1 ; ]Send(V, V̂ , P̂, ENCKPV (
SIGK −1 (type,totalReport, expireTime,
V

policy)))
(3) (2), P1

fact that P̂ is able to decrypt the message encrypted by V̂ ,
then from (9), it can be inferred that P̂ holds the symmetric
encryption key. 5) Synthesizing the above inferences, it can
be concluded in (10) that if P̂ holds the token, then P̂ holds
the encryption key of the secure channel with V̂ , and the token
is issued by being signed by V̂ .
The proof procedure of Theorem 3 is not expounded upon
redundantly. The detailed proof process is hereby provided as
follows:

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Send(V, V̂ , P̂, ENCKPV (
(1) AA1, P1

SIGK −1 (type,totalReport, expireTime,
V

totalEncReport)

policy)))
(4) (2)

(2) (1), AR1

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Has(P̂,token) ⊃ Has(P̂,

T EEReport), AIK −1 ; ]Receive(V, P̂, V̂ ,

V

policy))

ENCKPV (SIGAIK −1 (PCRsel , nonce,

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Has(P̂, SIGK −1 (type,

T EEReport)))

V

totalReport, expireTime, policy)) ⊃

(3) (2), AR1

]V Receive(V, P̂, V̂ , ENCKPV (SIGAIK −1 (

type,totalReport, expireTime, policy))

Decrypt(P, ENCKPV (request)),
T EEReport)))

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Has(P̂,token) ⊃ Send(V,
(4) (3), P1

msg) ∧ Contains(msg,token)
(7) (2)

T EEReport)))
(5) (4)

X̂ = P̂ ∨ X̂ = V̂

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Has(P̂, request) ⊃ ∃X.Send(
X, X̂, P̂, request) ⊃ X̂ = P̂ ∨ X̂ = V̂

(8) (7), AA1, P1 ⊤[Verifierattest ]V ⌝Decrypt(V, ENCKPV (
(6) (5), AA1, P1

token)) ⊃ X̂ ̸= V̂

(10) (9), Γattest,1

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Receive(V, P̂, V̂ , ENCKPV (
SIGAIK −1 (Decrypt(P, ENCKPV (request)),

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Has(P̂,token) ⊃
X, ∃X.Decrypt(ENCKPV (token)) ⊃

(9) (7), (8)

⊤[request := symenc (nonce, PCEsel ), KPV ;

Send(V, msg) ∧ Contains(msg, SIGK −1 (
V

(6) (2), (4), (5)

⊤[totalEncReport := symenc totalReport,
KPV ;totalReport := sign (PCRsel , nonce,

SIGK −1 (type,totalReport, expireTime,
(5) (4), VER

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Receive(V, P̂, V̂ ,

⊤[Verifierattest ]V ⌝Encrypt(P, ENCKPV (nonce,

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Has(P̂,token) ⊃

PCRsel )) ⊃ X̂ ̸= P̂

Decrypt(P, ENCKPV (token))

(7) (5), (6), Γattest,2 ⊤[Verifierattest ]V Receive(P, V̂ , P̂, request) >
Sign(P, SIGAIK −1 (totalReport)) >

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Honest(P̂) ∧ Has(P̂,

Receive(V, P̂, V̂ ,totalEncReport)

token) ⊃ Has(P̂, KPV )
(11) (6), (9), (10) ⊤[Verifierattest ]V Honest(P̂) ∧ Has(P̂,
token) ⊃ Has(P̂, KPV ) ∧ Send(V, msg)

(8) AA1, P1

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Send(V, V̂ , P̂,tokenIn f o)

(9) (8)

⊤[tokenIn f o := symenc token, KPV ;token
:= sign (type,totalReport, expireTime,

∧ Contains(msg,token)

policy), KV−1 ; ]V Send(V, V̂ , P̂, ENCKPV (

During the execution of the Attestation protocol, the Verifier conducts reasoning according to the steps described above:
1) Via (1) - (3), in light of the actions it has executed, V̂ is capable of deducing that the dispatched message encompasses a
token encrypted with KPV , and this token is generated through
being signed by its own private key. 2) In the range of (4) (6), considering that P̂ possesses the token, and the held token
is produced after being signed by V̂ , and V̂ has transmitted
the message containing the token. 3) (7) - (9) imply that given
the circumstance that V̂ itself has not carried out decryption,
then in accordance with symmetric encryption, it can be ascertained that the decrypting entity is P̂. 4) Grounded on the

SIGK −1 (type,totalReport, expireTime,
V

policy)))
(10) (9)

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Sign(V, SIGK −1 (token))

(11) (7), (10)

⊤[Verifierattest ]V Honest(P̂) ∧ Sign(P,

V

SIGAIK −1 (totalReport)) ∧ Has(P̂,token)
⊃ (Send(V, V̂ , P̂, request) > Sign(P,
SIGAIK −1 (totalReport)))∧
Sign(V, SIGK −1 (token))
V

23

