JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

1

Teamwork Makes TEE Work: Open and Resilient
Remote Attestation on Decentralized Trust

arXiv:2402.08908v2 [cs.CR] 9 Aug 2024

Xiaolin Zhang, Kailun Qin, Shipei Qu, Tengfei Wang, Chi Zhang, Dawu Gu

Abstract—Remote Attestation (RA) enables the integrity and
authenticity of applications in Trusted Execution Environment
(TEE) to be verified. Existing TEE RA designs employ a
centralized trust model where they rely on a single provisioned
secret key and a centralized verifier to establish trust for remote
parties. This model is however brittle and can be untrusted under
advanced attacks nowadays. Besides, most designs only have
fixed procedures once deployed, making them hard to adapt to
different emerging situations and provide resilient functionalities.
Therefore, we propose JANUS, an open and resilient TEE
RA scheme. To decentralize trust, we, on one hand, introduce
Physically Unclonable Function (PUF) as an intrinsic root of trust
(RoT) in TEE to directly provide physical trusted measurements.
On the other hand, we design novel decentralized verification
functions on smart contract with result audits and RA session
snapshot. Furthermore, we design an automated switch mechanism that allows JANUS to remain resilient and offer flexible
RA services under various situations. We provide a UC-based
security proof and demonstrate the scalability and generality of
JANUS by implementing an complete prototype.
Index Terms—Trusted execution environment, Remote attestation, Physically unclonable function, Blockchain, Smart contract.

I. I NTRODUCTION

T

RUSTED Execution Environment (TEE) has emerged
as a cornerstone of protecting sensitive applications by
offering isolated areas (e.g., enclaves). Remote Attestation
(RA) is an essential component to ensure the integrity and
authenticity of TEEs, particularly in scenarios where trust must
be established between remote parties. In the standard RA
workflow [1], a verifier Vrf checks whether the application
(the attester Att) in a remote TEE device is authentic. Vrf
verifies Att’s measurement, which is signed by an attestation
key derived from a provisioned root key. Through RA, various
stakeholders, such as cloud service providers, data owners, and
developers, can use TEEs assuredly in hostile environments.
RA is necessary for modern TEE platforms. It helps establish trust relationships and secure channels, serving as a preliminary step before launching actual computing tasks within
the TEE. Therefore, nearly all cloud vendors and modern
TEEs, such as Azure [2], AWS [3], and SGX [4], Sanctum [5],
Xiaolin Zhang, Kailun Qin, Shipei Qu, Tengfei Wang, Chi Zhang and Dawu
Gu are with School of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU), Shanghai 200240, China (email:
xiaolinzhang@sjtu.edu.cn; kailun.qin@sjtu.edu.cn; shipeiqu@sjtu.edu.cn;
tengfei2019@sjtu.edu.cn; zcsjtu@sjtu.edu.cn; dwgu@sjtu.edu.cn).
Corresponding Author: Chi Zhang, Dawu Gu
Manuscript received XXX, XXX; revised XXX, XXX.

Keystone [6], provide RA functions. However, we notice that
current designs exhibit three significant limitations in practice.
• Untrusted TEE Platforms: Current TEE RA designs rely
on a centralized and manufacturer-dominated root of trust
(RoT), i.e., the hardware root key provisioned by the TEE
manufacturer. Users have to trust the manufacturers to trust
the keys. However, in recent years, side-channel attacks [7]–
[10], fault injection attacks [11]–[14], and other real-world
exploits [15]–[17] have proven that protecting this centralized
and digitally provisioned RoT is quite challenging against
advanced attackers. Once the key is leaked, attackers can
generate fake RA reports at will [18] to cover up that the
TEE platform has been completely compromised.
• Untrusted Verifier: The verification procedure in RA
is conducted by a centralized verifier [2]–[4], [19], lacking
transparency and open inspection. Users cannot verify or audit the genuineness of the verification results. The centralized
verifier could claim a compromised application to be trusted
or vice versa out of business interests or external attacks. It
is even worse that the verification services are deployed by
the manufacturer itself [20]. The monolithic trust model can
sabotages users’ trust on TEEs [18], [21].
This centralized trust on both the attester and verifier sides
can cause serious vulnerabilities to the entire RA procedure,
e.g., malicious application measurements, fake signed reports,
and unverifiable results. One part being compromised in the
chain of trust lead to the failure of the whole system. This
fundamental problem prevents RA from fulfilling its very purpose, i.e., establishing authentic trust between remote entities.
• Rigid Procedure: Most TEE RA designs follow a fixed
procedure [1] for standard scenarios and depend heavily on
the underlying cloud infrastructure to function properly [2],
[3]. They lack the resilience [22] to remain operational under
adverse conditions, which has been required in various systems
[23]–[26]. Such resilience is crucial since RA must be performed before most other TEE functions. Real-world incidents
such as network outages, device malfunctions and computing
exhaustion can occur, necessitating RA to provide resilient
functionalities to continuously ensure the platforms integrity.
As TEEs are increasingly used in diverse emerging scenarios,
there is a stronger incentive for RA designs to address this
aspect and avoid using a rigid workflow.
According to these limitations, we identify three crucial
requirements for designing an open and resilient TEE RA
scheme with end-to-end trust and high-available attestation
functionality. First (R1), the growing number of advanced

0000–0000/00$00.00 © 2021 IEEE

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

2

TABLE I: Comparison between JANUS and related works
Design

R1: Trusted RA RoT
RoT Type
Intrinsic Trust1

Intel IAS [20]
Intel DCAP [38]
Azure RA [2]
Google RA [19]

root key
root key
root key
root key

✗
✗
✗
✗

OPERA [21]
Sanctum RA [5]
LIRA-V [39]
MATEE [37]
SCRAPS [31]
PERMANENT [32]
SGXOnerated [40]
DAA [41]
Román et al. [28]
JANUS (this paper)

root key
root key
root key
root key
root key
root key
root key
root key
root key
PUF

✗
✓
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✓
✓

R2: Open Verification
Multi-party Verification
Auditable Results
I NDUSTRY
✗
✗
✓
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
ACADEMIA
✓
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✓
✗
✓
✗
✓
✗
✓
✗
✗
✗
✓
✓

root key

1

root key

2

Relying on a manufacturer-provisioned device root key.
Using PUF to generate the root key of TEE.
PUF
Directly embedding PUF into TEE RA functions.

attacks [7]–[15], [18], [27] in recent years make it urgent
for TEE RA to adopt a stronger RoT with independent trust
for attestation, instead of relying on a centralized root key.
Second (R2), the vendor-centric single-point-of-verification
model poses great risks of losing trust or being compromised
by external attackers [21]. It is essential to create a more open
procedure that supports various trusted verification functions
and multi-party participation. Third (R3), it is also necessary
for users to select different RA workflows and additional
functions to handle unexpected situations, ensuring that the
attestation procedure can bootstrap trust for other tasks in TEE.
Existing Approaches. Unfortunately, despite tremendous efforts in TEE RA protocol designs, none of the existing works
satisfy all three requirements at once. Table I presents the
representative designs in industry and academia.
Most designs rely on a root key that is embedded by
the manufacturer or generated by hardware [5], [28]. The
entire RA procedure can be immediately compromised once
the key string is leaked by various attacks [9], [10], [14]–
[16], [18], [29], [30], regardless of how it is created (not
satisfying R1). On the verifier side, some designs [21], [31],
[32] do allow more parties to perform the verification together.
However, they only provide signature verification and lack rich
functions to build a more open procedure. Such decentralized
function is insufficient in emerging scenarios [33]–[36] (not
fully satisfying R2). Meanwhile, almost no research [37] have
explored how to provide the native resilience for a complete
RA procedure. They only offer specific, fixed attestation
workflows, requiring a stable cloud environment for users to
verify their applications in TEE (not satisfying R3).
Our Design. Although the three requirements may seem
orthogonal to each other, we identify that the fundamental
factors to meet them lie in decentralization and redundancy.
Therefore, in this paper, we propose JANUS1 , an open and
1 JANUS is an ancient roman guardian god with two faces

R3: Resilient Functions
Redundant Workflows
Infra. Independent
✗
✗
✗
✗

✗
✗
✗
✗

✗
✗
✗
✓2
✗
✗
N/A
N/A
✗
✓

✓3
✗
✗
✗
✓
✓
N/A
N/A
✗
✓

Trust is not derived from any artificial entity.
Having extra TPM-based RA functionality for SGX.
3
Third parties are allowed to deploy the verification services.

resilient TEE RA design on decentralized end-to-end trust with
flexible functions and procedures. Compared with other works,
we fully integrate these two factors throughout the entire RA
procedure of JANUS, allowing it to satisfy the three crucial
requirements simultaneously.
For R1, JANUS decentralizes the centralized root key of
TEE by Physically Unclonable Function (PUF) [42]. PUF is a
hardware primitive that incorporates physical variations during
manufacturing to its intrinsic structure, which cannot be determined even by its manufacturer. Some designs have introduced
PUF into TEE/RA for key generation [5], [28] or application
measurement [43]. In JANUS, we take a step further by offering
this insight: PUF establishes intrinsic trust based on physics
instead of human configuration. Itself genuinely decentralizes
the centralized trust model on a single root key and address
the untrusted platform limitation. JANUS offers PUF-based
mutual attestation protocols for local and remote enclaves in
TEE. While the way PUF is used is somewhat similar with
other research, we treat it as an additional stronger RoT with
independent trust and the purpose is different.
For R2, JANUS decentralizes the centralized verification
procedure by smart contracts. Indeed, many works in Table
I have adopted the same technique, JANUS goes beyond them
by offering attestation audit, batch attestation and other novel
functions to enable a more flexible, auditable and lightweight
procedure. They create a more open verification procedure in a
stronger decentralized manner, thereby thoroughly addressing
the untrusted verifier limitation. For R3, we design an automated switch mechanism using a dedicated smart contract in
JANUS. It allows users to select different workflows to conduct
the attestation, i.e., using off-chain PUF-based protocols or onchain RA functions. This two-fold architecture makes JANUS
continuously functional against incidents such as network outages, device malfunctions and computing exhaustion, ensuring
flexible and high-reliable RA service delivery.
We evaluated JANUS with a Proof-of-Concept (PoC) im-

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

plementation. The system prototype includes an SGX-enabled
Dell EMC server and an NXP LPC55S69 board with Hyperledger Sawtooth [44]. The server is connected to an IPUF [45].
The LPC board has a built-in SRAM PUF IP. They mutually
attest with each other using the on/off-chain RA functions.
Sawtooth is the backend of our verification service and switch
mechanism. Our evaluation show that the off-chain attestation
using PUF and TEE take ∼5 ms on EMC Server and ∼510 ms
on LPC board (R1). The on-chain verification functions take
8.3 ms∼30 ms per transaction (R2). For the attestation switch,
JANUS provides a policy-based approach which requires a
5.7KB contract and incurs an on-chain latency of 4.4 ms (R3).
Contributions. JANUS is the first TEE RA design with endto-end trust and resilient workflow on decentralized RoT and
verification procedure. Specifically, our work contributes by:
• We use the independent trust from PUF to decentralize
the single trust provided by artificial root keys in TEE
for a more trusted and stronger RoT for RA. We design
PUF-based mutual attestation protocols for applications
in local or remote enclaves. We provide a UC-based [46]
formal security proof for the protocols.
• We design novel smart contract-based RA functions for
transparent decentralized verification. They enable efficient on-chain batch attestation and the audits of historical
results by snapshots. creating a more open RA verification
procedure for practical applications.
• We propose a switch mechanism to combine the PUFbased protocols and smart contract attestation. It ensures
automated workflow transitions between off-chain and
on-chain RA functions in the event of unexpected system
failures, thereby achieving resilience by design.
2
• We give a complete PoC implementation of JANUS . The
comparison with other RA schemes show that JANUS has
small storage overhead and achieves great scalability and
reasonable computing performance.
Scope. We focus on the system design of TEE RA schemes in
this study to address the issues of over-centralization and lack
of resilience, which exist in most designs and have grown
as urgent industrial concerns. We assume that the off-theshelf hardware environments with PUF-embedded TEEs are
available. The hardware integration of PUF into existing TEEs
is out of scope of this work.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Trusted Execution Environment and Remote Attestation
Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) aims to create a
secure, isolated environment within a processor (xPU) where
sensitive code can execute securely without interference from
the normal OS. It typically requires hardware and OS-level
support to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the loaded
applications. TEEs can be roughly classified into enclavebased (Intel SGX [4], Sanctum [5], Keystone [6], PENGLAI
[47]), virtualization-based (ARM Trustzone, Intel TDX [48],
AMD SEV [49], ARM CCA [50]).
2 It will be open-sourced at https://sites.google.com/view/janus-ra

3

In recent years, TEEs have encountered numerous advanced
attacks [7]–[15], [18], [27] in the real world. These attacks can
expose the isolated secrets and compromise the applications
of other tenants in cloud environments. Therefore, before
executing any actual tasks in TEE, it is necessary to verify
the integrity of the loaded program to ensure the security of
TEE itself.
Remote Attestation (RA) is an essential component in
modern TEEs. It relies on trusted measurement and cryptographic primitives to extend the chain of trust between
remote entities. Figure 1 depicts a simplified RA workflow
standardized in RFC9334 [1].
Parties have to be trusted
Attested Application
e

do

e
rs

en

th

y
ke

y
ke ing
ot on
Ro visi
① pro

Endorsements

TEE Manufacturer
②

④ Verification

③ RA
protocols
Attester

RA Procedure

result

Verifier

Relying Party
(User)

endorse the result

Fig. 1: A typical TEE RA workflow.
We further explain the terminology [1] as follows.
• TEE Manufacturer (Mfr ) provisions RoT in the TEE devices, e.g., root key injection (➀). Users have to trust Intel
[4], Apple [51], Samsung [52] and other semiconductor
giants to securely embed a private root key.
• Mfr synchronizes necessary parameters (➁) with Verifier
(Vrf ), such as device specifications and public keys. Vrf
is usually a cloud verification service, like Azure [2],
serving as a proxy between the users and the TEEs. It
initiates and conducts the RA procedure with the attester.
• Attester (Att) is an application deployed in the TEE.
For example, in SGX, Att obtains its binary digest
by MRENCLAVE, which is signed by an attestation key
derived from the root key. It then produces an encrypted
RA report for Vrf to verify (➂). This procedure can be
mutual [53] in some distributed systems where Vrf is
also attested.
• Relying Party (RP) is the actual user of RA who requests
Vrf for attestation. It can decide whether to trust Att as
authentic based on the verification results (➃).
RA is the initial procedure occurring before TEE executes
actual applications. Users should use RA to verify whether
their deployed code is authentic before launching it.
B. Physically Unclonable Functions (PUF)
PUF, developed from the physical one-way function [42],
is a hardware primitive that randomly maps a given challenge
to a response. They utilizes minor environmental variations in
manufacturing and incorporate physical randomness into its
structures. Therefore, each PUF instance has a unique structure
with a distinct set of challenge-response pairs (CRPs). In this
work, PUF is treated as a stable physical random function [54].

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

PUF in the real-world. Currently, famous MCU and FPGA
manufacturers have all introduced their commercialized PUFs
[55], [56]. There are also several PUF-specialized companies
including Verayo, Intrinsic-ID [57], ICTK [58], and PUFtech.
PUF has already been integrated in various real-world products, such as Intel SGX [59], IoT devices [60], medical wearables [61] and USIM [62]. With the standardization efforts
[63], [64], PUF is experiencing widespread deployment and
becoming a basic component in hardware ecosystems.
The most common usage of PUF today is root key generation. A PUF response can be a secret seed to derive a
recoverable root key [5], [28]. However, this usage does not
provide stronger security guarantees because the RA procedure
still becomes compromised if the key is revealed [13], [18].
A huge gap exists between the rapidly growing PUF industry
and less developed PUF usages.
III. M OTIVATION
A. Lessons Learned from Real-world TEE RA Designs
Currently, nearly all real-world vendors [2]–[4], [19] have
adopted the workflow presented in §II-A since it relies on a
straightforward trust model. We then present three mainstream
commercial designs and analyze their problems.
• Intel IAS-based RA [4]: An attesting application obtains
its binary measurement by MRENCLAVE. It wraps the measurement, a signature signed by an Intel-provisioned key and
other data to form an encrypted report. This report can only
be decrypted and verified by Intel Attestation Service (IAS).
• Intel DCAP-based RA [38]: To avoid the IAS-centric
procedure, Intel proposed Data Center Attestation Primitives
(DCAP) which offloads the report verification to a third party
by issuing Provisioning Certification Key (PCK) certificates.
However, users still rely on Intel’s root key, and only one
(non-Intel) verifier can execute the verification.
• Microsoft Azure RA [2]: Similar to IAS-based RA, only
the Azure Attestation Service can verify the measurements in
this design. The main difference is the replacement of IAS
with another vendor-specific service. RP has to trust Azure
(Vrf ) to return the right results. Other cloud vendors (e.g.,
Google [19], AWS [3]) adopt a similar architecture.
In these examples, as long as Vrf confirms Att’s report that
is endorsed by Mfr , the chain of trust is established. RP has
no alternative but to believe that Vrf has faithfully executed
the verification and that the TEE root key is secure. However,
powerful attackers [7]–[10] can generate fake RA reports and
verification results once they leak the key or corrupt Vrf .
Then, others would not be able to find the compromises of
TEEs if the trust in RA procedure has been completely broken.
Also, these RA designs themselves cannot provide reliable
functionalities. How they can be used is entirely up to the
underlying cloud infrastructure. They serve merely as only
add-ons to the deployed cloud services for TEEs.
Lessons Learned: We conclude the following lessons, i.e., the
motivation of this work, from the architectural weaknesses of
these real-world RA designs.
• Current designs rely on Mfr to provision a single centralized root key as the RoT. Once the key is compromised,

4

attackers can tamper with the deployed applications and
generate fake signed RA reports at will. (Requiring R1)
• Only one Vrf can execute the verification and RP
must accept whatever Vrf returns. The results cannot
be re-verified or audited to ensure that Vrf has honestly
checked the attested applications. (Requiring R2)
• The usability of current designs is entirely up to the
underlying cloud infrastructure. They cannot provide reliable attestation services without a stable (cloud) environment. (Requiring R3)
B. Related Works and Design Motivation
Driven by these real-world needs, we now investigate the
related works and their limitations. Further, we will clarify
how JANUS is motivated to adopt PUF and smart contract to
satisfy the three security requirements. The works [65]–[73]
that focus on other problems will not be discussed.
1) Stronger TEE RoT for RA.: MATEE [37] introduces a
TPM for SGX to offer an independent attestation key pair as a
backup RoT. Costan et al. [5] and Roman et al. [28] use PUF
to generate the root key for RA. However, the system remains
vulnerable if the key is deduced by carefully designed attacks
[9], [13], [16]–[18], [74], [75], no matter how it is sealed [41],
[76], [77] or derived. The trust on a digital key string does not
establish a stronger RoT for TEE RA. However, we notice that
the potential of PUF has not been fully explored.
Design motivation for R1. The security of PUF sources from
its unique physical structure. Unlike the TEE manufacturers,
who have full control of the key provision, even PUF manufacturers cannot predict how a PUF instance is produced. Therefore, PUF offers physics-based independent and unbiased trust,
which cannot be realized by key-based RoT. Moreover, it
acts as a physical random function to provide integrity and
authenticity for the input, thereby realizing measuring and
“signing” simultaneously for RA. Hence, PUF itself, instead
of a PUF-derived key, can be a stronger intrinsic RoT in TEE
RA to effectively decentralize the trust in the root key.
PUF has emerged as a critical security primitive in numerous applications [78]–[82]. It also has been introduced into RA
by several works [83]–[87]. In PUFAtt [84], PReFER [85] and
[83], PUF-based measurements are verified using emulated
PUF models. The system can be breached once the model
is leaked by attackers. Some studies [88], [89] use PUF to
directly provide physical bindings for attested measurements.
This approach seems similar to JANUS since PUF is simple in
use. However, we argue that our objectives differ. Compared
with other works, we further observe that PUF instantiates a
way to establish independent and genuine trust without human
interventions. Based on this deeper insight, we fully harness
PUF’s potential and address the fundamental trust crisis of
TEE RA.
2) Decentralized Verification Functions: Intel DCAP-based
RA [38] and OPERA [21] delegate the authority of Intel to a
third party by customized certificates, allowing it to deploy the
RA verification service. This approach only migrates the trust
from one centralized party to another. In fact, blockchain and
smart contract are common effective techniques for achiev-

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

ing decentralization. TM-Coin [90], BARRET [91], PERMANENT [32], SCRAPS [31], CONFIDE [92] and others [40],
[93] have used them to realize the on-chain decentralized
verification of RA reports. However, their contracts only
enable signature verification and may impose computational
overhead [21] for distributed attestations. And the historical
results cannot be re-verified or audited.
Design Motivation for R2. Considering the limitations of
these works, we are motivated to build a more transparent
procedure with extensive on-chain verification functions. We
continue to use smart contract since its decentralized nature is
especially suitable to satisfy R2. Compared with others, JANUS
has a more open on-chain verification procedure. We treat
smart contract as a “public bulletin board”, enabling not only
multi-party execution but also the preservation of historical
states and results. Except for on-chain signature verification,
both aspects have not been well leveraged in previous works.
3) Resilient RA Procedure: As mentioned earlier, the extra
attestation key in MATEE [37] can cooperate with the original
SGX RoT to enable the multimodal attestation. Except that,
it appears that current designs [94], [95] do not focus on
providing built-in resilience against system failures such as
network outages, computing exhaustion, etc., which is the
fundamental service requirement for RA.
Design Motivation for R3. Motivated by this significant gap,
we argue that the key to realize resilience is to create redundancy in an RA design. We can develop multiple attestation
functionalities. They can be activated by a switch mechanism
to offer RA services collaboratively, as shown in Fig 2. Users
can choose the suitable way of performing RA in response to
common system failures or customized needs, thereby ensuring the resilience. When the cloud infrastructure is limited or
damaged, an RA design can mitigate the availability issues,
thus continually ensuring the integrity of TEEs.
Attestation
workflow

Attestation
Functionality 1
Attestation
Functionality 2

Device malfunction,
Network outages,
Computing exhaustion

Attestation
finish

Others
Switch between functionalities

Fig. 2: Illustration of attestation switch mechanism

IV. JANUS OVERVIEW
A. Threat Model and Assumption
In this work, Atts are assumed to be deployed in TEE platforms with PUF embedded. We use the mutual RA assumption
where Vrf and Att are attested with each other. The TEEs
that running Vrf s do not necessarily have PUF. We consider
an adversary Adv who can launch attacks against Att, Vrf .
Its goal is to fool the attestation procedure or tamper with the
results. In our threat model, Att, Vrf are honest and Adv can:
A1 (Channel attacks) Launch man-in-the-middle (MiTM)
attacks to eavesdrop, intercept, modify and replay messages between Att and Vrf in the open channel.

5

A2 (DoS attacks on Att) Sending massive erroneous attestation requests to an legitimate attested device to exhaust its
resources, making it unavailable to handle valid requests.
A3 (Physical probing) Crack the attested devices and deduce
the private keys through semi-invasive physical manners
like side-channel analysis or external storage read-out.
A4 (Invasive Chip delayering) Use invasive and destructive
measures like Focused Ion Beam (FIB) and Laser Voltage
Probing (LVP) to mill and delayer the device chip, and
then physically extract the fused keys in TEE.
A5 (PUF modeling attacks) Collect raw PUF CRPs from
the communication channels during the online attestation.
Adv can use them to train a PUF model by machine
learning to output new valid CRPs.
These attacks may help Adv generate signed measurements
or fool the verification procedure. Besides, Adv is allowed to
corrupt the verifiers to change the results.
A6 (Rogue verifiers) Adv corrupts one or more legitimate
Vrf (s) to let it/them output the verification results as
Adv ’s wishes, thereby making wrong claims on attested
applications.
Compared with other works, JANUS aims to counter the
strongest possible adversary that combines all attacks in the
threat model.
B. System Architecture
JANUS is a TEE RA system with end-to-end trusted procedure. It has a two-fold architecture with distinct RA functionalities, hence the name. For one, to address the untrusted
platform limitation and satisfy R1, JANUS provides PUFbased mutual attestation protocols built on the double RoTs
(i.e., PUF and TEE root key). For another, to address the
untrusted verifier limitation and satisfy R2, JANUS provides
smart contract-based verification functions that enable batch
attestation and flexible result audits. The two parts together
form the off-chain and on-chain RA function of JANUS.
To satisfy R3 and realize resilience for JANUS, we let the
two parts to collaborate by a smart contract-based switch
mechanism. It yields greater openness and offers automation
to switch between off-chain and on-chain attestation (§V-D).
Roles: Except for Mfr , Att, Vrf , we define the following
roles for participants in JANUS:
• Attestation Manager: A trusted third-party (TTP) service
for bootstrapping the system. It does not appear in the
online attestation after the initialization.
• Aggregator: Resource-rich Att or Vrf who voluntarily
aggregates blockchain transactions for others.
• Auditor: Attested legitimate Att or Vrf who will audit
the attestation results of requested RA sessions.
The behaviors and output Attestation Manager can be verified publicly (§V-A). It can be realized by any global service
providers, thus not hurting the decentralization in practice.
Workflow: We present the workflow of JANUS in Figure 3. It
has three phases: Provision, Initialization, and Attestation.
• Provision (offline): The TEE devices are provisioned with
secret materials like device-specific root keys. Also, PUF

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

Provision

Initialization

PUF
Manufacturer

Certificate
Issuer

Attestation
On-chain Attestation

TEE
Manufacturer

6

Participants

PUF RoT

Public key
Certificate

Registration
contract

upload registra
tion manifests

TEE RoT

involved

Attestation
Manager

grouping and
generate keys

Audit
contract

...

...
attestation
request

Attestation
contract

Attestation
Switch

Aggregator

...
Auditor

Off-chain Attestation
Verifier

Attester
Enclave
PUF

mutual
attestation

Enclave
PUF

Fig. 3: Architecture and workflow of JANUS

instances will be embedded into the devices as an intrinsic
RoT to provide independent trust.
• Initialization (offline): Att and Vrf and other participants
first set up a consortium blockchain. Then Attestation
Manager groups Att and Vrf , and uploads registration
manifests to the blockchain. Details can be found in §V-A
• Attestation (online): For a complete RA session in JANUS ,
Vrf and Att first choose the way of attestation by switch.
Then Vrf sends a challenge message to start the off-chain
(§V-B) or on-chain attestation §V-B. The result will be
determined and may be audited in the future.
C. Design Challenges
C1: Maintaining scalability in an end-to-end (E2E) protocol. Common approaches of establishing secure E2E links
between two parties use heavyweight primitives (TLS) or
redundant interactions (two-party computation), limited in
efficiency and scalability. This challenge is particularly tricky
in our work since PUF is a hardware-unique primitive that each
instance has a unique CRP domain. Pre-sharing each ones’
CRPs would bring tremendous overhead instead.
C2: Avoiding attestation data leakage on the blockchain.
The blockchain used here may allow rogue verifiers (A6) to
probe data on-chain and recover the attestation messages in
other RA sessions or deduce others’ secrets. For example,
raw measurements or PUF CRPs must not be stored on-chain
since rogue verifiers may directly use them to perform MITM
attacks (A1).
C3: Snapshotting an RA session. To enable the audits of
attestation results, uploading all states and output of RA
sessions to the blockchain is a straightforward approach.
However, it is infeasible since this causes excessive storage
overhead and latency on-chain. Therefore, to keep the scale
of blockchain compact and functionally focused, we need a
lightweight and secure structure to properly summarize RA
sessions, i.e., snapshots. Verifying the snapshots would be
equivalent to verifying each step of the protocol.
C4: Realizing automation for attestation switch. The two
RA functionalities provided by JANUS should be closely
merged with each other to achieve resilience for various applications and situations. The switch mechanism must be self-

instructing and interconnect with each part, without requiring
global operators to manage the RA procedures.
V. JANUS D ESIGNS
We present the detailed design of JANUS in this section. As
described in §IV-B, we realize two attestation functionalities,
i.e., off-chain and on-chain, and an automated switch mechanism to combine the two. The notations used through this
paper are given as follows.
Notations: Let {0, 1}∗ be the set of all bit strings and ∅ be an
empty set. For any n ∈ N, {0, 1}n is the set of all n-bit strings.
X ←$ {0, 1}n means the random selection of a string X from
{0, 1}n . For some X ∈ {0, 1}n , |X| denotes the length of X.
For some X, Y ∈ {0, 1}n , X||Y denotes their concatenation,
and X ⊕ Y denotes their bitwise XOR result. The lengths of
PUF challenges and responses are set to be the same in this
study, denoted by n unless otherwise specified. HK (·) denotes
a keyed hash function.
A. System Initialization
The offline initialization is conducted by the Attestation
Manager, who helps generate IDs and protocol keys. The
Manager is not involved in the online attestation.
① Setup and Grouping. The participants first create their
blockchain accounts, i.e. a key pair (pk, sk) with personal
address addr = H(pk). Then the Manager does the following:
• Grouping: Manager organizes the participants in JANUS
by their locations or functions. For example, the attested
applications on the same device can be naturally assigned
in the same group (group id gid). The use of grouping
will be further shown in ②.
• Attesters: Let aid = addr||DSN||gid. DSN (Device Serial
Number) identifies on which device Att aid is deployed.
• Verifiers: Let vid = addr||VON||gid where SON (Verifier
Owner Number) specifies which owner Vrf vid belongs
to. vid is similar to aid, which eases the identity switch
in the mutual attestation.
② Protocol keys generation. Then Manager helps generate
the protocol key, including a group key (unique for each group)
and a communication key (unique for each one).

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

Attesters: Each Att aid generates an initial PUF challenge
Cinit , which can be chosen arbitrarily and made public.
Then Att aid uses PUF to get Raid = puf (Cinit ) and
MR aid = puf (Raid ), and submits Raid to the Manager. The Manager calculates and returns the group key
Kgid = ⊕N
i=1 Ri for a group Ggid with N attesters.
Att aid now calculates its communication key MK aid =
Kgid ⊕ Raid ⊕ MR aid .
• Verifiers: Each Vrf vid randomly selects a communication
key svid ←$ {0, 1}n , then submits svid to the Manager
and receives their group key Sgid = ⊕M
j=1 sj .
• Manager: For each communication key, it encrypts the
key using all group keys to compute the handshake
materials H. For example, for MK i of Att i , Hi =
{. . . , EncKj (MK i ), EncKi (MK i ), . . . EncSk (MK i ), . . . }.
All H will be uploaded to the blockchain in ③. This
pre-computation can address C1 and thus significantly
improve the E2E scalability of JANUS.
Finally, Att aid stores (Cinit , MK aid ) and Vrf vid stores
(svid , Sgid ). Att aid does not need to store the group key since
they can recover Kgid = MK aid ⊕ MR aid ⊕ Raid by PUF.
Note that the communication keys are designed to be known
by the other participant in the protocol (§V-B2). Our PUFbased designs ensures that an adversary obtaining several
communication keys cannot derive any group key, eliminating
the usage of secure storage (seen in §V-B3).
③ Registration to the blockchain. The Manager uploads
registration manifests to the blockchain, including H, device
configurations, and measurements. The configurations would
contain CPU SVN versions, TCB sizes, and others. The
measurements fall into two types here:
• Traditional Measurement: For verifiers in mutual RA,
their measurements are traditional enclave measurements
M , e.g., hash digests of the application’s meta-data [4].
• PUF-based Nested Measurement:
The measurements
RM of attesters are obtained using both PUF and TEE.
Specifically, we let RM = puf (M ) where M is the
original enclave measurement.
The Manager would upload (pid, H(RMaid ||aid||pid)) or
H(Mvid ||vid) instead of raw measurements to prevent the
sloppy attesters in challenge C2. The registration contract
handling these manifests is given in §V-C.
•

B. PUF-based Attestation Protocols
To satisfy R1, we use PUF as an intrinsic RoT in TEE
to generate physically trusted measurements. The designed
attestation protocols form the off-chain RA function of JANUS.
1) Local attestation: JANUS supports the local attestation
(LA) like Intel SGX RA [4]. Multiple Atts can exist as
seperate functions on the same TEE device. LA allows them
to attest each other before interacting with a remote Vrf .
In Figure 4, two attesters Att aid1 , Att aid2 control different
enclaves and can both invoke the device’s PUF instances. We
let Att aid1 initiate the session and generates the challenge
(Z1 , t1 ) by step ①. When receiving (Z1 , t1 ) from an untrusted
local channel, Att aid2 invokes the same PUF to verify the
tag. The operations in step ③ and ⑤ provides PUF-based

7

Attester
aid2

Attester
puf

Enclave

Get
by calling
the same PUF. Then calculate
and verify

2

Enclave

aid1
1

Let

3

Let
and
Calculate

Call the corresponding PUF
instance to verify Z2 and M2

Verify Z3 and M1, then finish
the mutual local attestation

5

Let
and

and
6

4

Calculate
and

Fig. 4: The off-chain local attestation protocol of JANUS
① Att aid1 uses aid1 , timestamp ts1 , local PUF id pid1 and a nonce
n1 ∈ {0, 1}n to form Z1 . Then it invokes PUF to get Rn1 . A MAC
algorithm T like HMAC [96] is used with Rn1 being the key.
② Att aid2 reproduces Rn1 by using n1 as the PUF challenge. (Z1 , t1 )
is considered valid only if Att aid2 gets the same t1 .
③ After verifying (Z1 , t1 ), Att aid2 uses a different PUF instance pid2
to get RM2 . It obtains C2 , R2 = puf(C2 ) and gets t2 .
④ Att aid1 uses the specified PUF instance to get Rn2 and recalculated C2 , R2 , thereby verifying (Z2 , t2 ).
⑤ Att aid1 follows the same steps in ③ to generate (Z3 , t3 ). Its
measurement M1 is also contained in Z3 to attest Att aid2 .
⑥ If the verification passes for both enclaves, it proves that they
indeed exist on the same TEE platform.

integrity and authenticity to the tag generation. Our protocol
avoids leaking PUF responses to the channel, or adversaries
can collect raw CRPs to perform PUF modeling attacks (A5).
2) Remote attestation: This protocol is the core of off-chain
RA function of JANUS. As shown in Figure 5, an Att and a
Vrf is mutually attested through this three-round protocol.
Attester
Enclave

Verifier

aid: i

Enclave

puf
Verify and decrypt using sj from
, then obtain RT, nV
Invoke PUF to get
and form

2

vid: j

1

Let
and

3

and

Verify and decrypt using the shared 6
key
, then complete the mu
tual remote attestation

4

Verify and decrypt using MKi from
. Then parse out and
check
with

Let

and obtain

5

Fig. 5: The off-chain remote attestation protocol of JANUS
Before starting the RA session, the verifier Vrf j retrieves
EncSj (MK i ) and (pid, H(RMi ||i||pid)) from the blockchain.
Then it initiates the RA session as follows.
Sending remote attestation challenge. Vrf j first constructs
the challenge message (A1 , C1 , T1 ):
① (A1 , C1 , T1 ): Vrf j forms A1 and samples RT , RV ←$
{0, 1}n where RT is a temporary random string and
RV is a part of the shared key. Now Vrf j uses an
authenticated encryption (AE) algorithm E to encrypt
RT ||RV with A1 as the associated data (AD) and sj as

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

the key. Thus, Vrf j gets the ciphertext C1 and the tag
T1 , then sends (A1 , C1 , T1 ) to the attester.
Responding with signed measurement. Upon receiving
(A1 , C1 , T1 ), Att i learns the vidj and retrieves EncKi (sj ),
H(Mj ||j) from the blockchain.
② verify (A1 , C1 , T1 ): Att i gets Ri , M Ri by PUF and
recovers Ki = MKi ⊕ MR i ⊕ Ri . It uses the decryption
algorithm D to verify (A1 , C1 ) and obtain RT , RV .
③ (A2 , C2 , T2 ): After Att i verifies the challenge, it generates the nested measurement RMi = puf (Mi ). Then it
uses original TEE attestation key to sign RMi ||RA where
RA = pufpid (nV ) is another part of the shared session
key. The signature σA is then appended after RMi ||RA
and they are together encrypted by E. Finally, Att i sends
(A2 , C2 , T2 ) back to Vrf j .
Verifying with response. Vrf j decrypts EncSj (MK i ) to get
MK i so that it can calculate MK i ⊕ RT .
④ verify the measurement: Vrf j uses the certificate Certi to
verify σA . If the verification passes, Vrf j parses out RMi
to re-calculate H(RMi ||i||pid) and compares it with the
one on-chain. If the measurement is valid, then Vrf j
completes the attestation with Att i .
⑤ (A3 , C3 , T3 ): Vrf j now can obtain the shared session
key SK = RA ⊕ RV . Then it forms A3 and generates its
enclave measurement Mj . It calls E to encrypt Mj along
σV using the shared key SK.
In step ⑥, Att i can verify (A3 , C3 , T3 ) and the measurement Mj using the same procedure in ④. Then it finishes the
attestation with Vrf j and obtains SK = RA ⊕ RT .
3) Protocol Summary: We summarize the above attestation
protocols and give the following remarks.
• Intrinsic RoTs: With PUF being an extra intrinsic RoT,
Adv would fail the attestation even if it knows the TEE
root keys. This decentralized trust can offer stronger
security guarantees for TEE RA and succinctly addresses
the untrusted TEE platform limitaion.
• Performance Tradeoff: By the pre-computation of handshake materials, our protocol achieves lightweight and
scalable communication at the cost of single query to
blockchain. Participants can periodically cache the onchain entries, minimizing the latency of the online query.
• Key Protection: The designed key structures of Att use
PUF response MR aid to mask the secret Raid . Then even
if MK aid is leaked, Adv will learn nothing about Raid
and Kgid (A3).
C. Smart Contracts for Attestation
We design three smart contracts in JANUS to realize participant registration, on-chain attestation, and attestation audit.
We first introduce the registration contract, which is required
by both off-chain and on-chain attestation.
1) Registration Contract: As mentioned in §V-A, thi contract is used to store registration manifests. It manipulates the
blockchain as an immutable distributed database L through
key-value pairs and offers two functionalities:
① U PLOAD MANIFESTS. The Attestation Manager can upload
devices’ measurements, encrypted key materials and other data

8

through this contract. The contract stores them with unique
blockchain addresses as indexes in L.
② R ETRIEVE ON - CHAIN DATA. The blockchain nodes (initialized devices) are allowed to retrieve any data stored on-chain.
They can use a specified address to query the block entry in
L without direct interactions with the contract.
The registration contract avoids the risk of a single point of
failure caused by a central server, thereby offering communication scalability for RA in large-scale network.
2) Attestation Contract: This contract realizes on-chain
attestation for JANUS. It involves multiple verifiers in a single
verification execution. As a result, both the execution and results of RA verification would be publicly aware and admitted.
The workflow of this contract is described as follows.
The verifier generates a request transaction to trigger the
attester, e.g., changing the state nonce n under a given request blockchain address which Att aid periodically queries.
When Att aid learns of a coming request (the nonce being changed), it generates RMaid , σA , and calculates C =
EncMK aid (n||RMaid ||σA ). It wraps C in a valid transaction
and submits it to a nearby Aggregator (§IV-B). Aggregators
will wrap and submit received transactions in a batch to
the attestation contract. Main functions of this contract are
formalized in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1: Smart contract for on-chain attestation
Input : transaction list l
Output: trust state st
BATCH ATTESTATION
1 for a transaction tx ∈ l do
2
if tx.signature is valid then
3
st ←O N - CHAIN ATTESTATION(tx)
4
Output: st
5
end
6 end
O N - CHAIN ATTESTATION
7 c ← EncSg (M Kaid ), t ← H(RMaid ||aid||pid), pid
/* retrieve them from blockchain */

M Kaid ← DecSg (c), C ← tx.payload // parse tx
∗
9 P ← DecM Kaid (C), (RMaid , σA ) ← Parse(P )
∗
∗
10 t ← H(RMaid ||aid||pid)
∗
11 if σA is invalid or t ̸= t then
12
Output: untrusted
13 end
14 Output: trusted
8

① O N - CHAIN ATTESTATION: As shown in line 7, verifiers use
MK aid to obtain the measurement RMaid and the signature
σA . They can use the same verification steps in §V-B2 and
determine the attestation result on Att aid together.
② BATCH ATTESTATION: Verifiers can verify multiple measurements in a transaction batch at once. This improves
computing resource utilization of the blockchain nodes and
facilitates the on-chain verification procedure.
3) Audit Contract: We design an audit contract as shown
in Figure 6. This contract allows other participants in JANUS
to re-verify the result of a historical RA session. It helps

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

9

evaluate the device status and identify compromised verifiers
or attesters in time.

Another
Participant
(b) audit request

Attester
RA session

(a) upload
credentials

Aggregator

Verifier

Blockchain
Network
trigger

update
state

Audit
contract

Auditors

Fig. 6: Workflow of on-chain audit smart contract
As mentioned before, uploading all protocol messages for
all Att and Vrf is not feasible (C3), so we propose a new data
structure, credential, to snapshot an end-to-end RA session.
Here, Att aid calculates cr1 = HKgid (Hsvid (m1 ||m2 ||aid||vid))
and Vrf vid calculates cr2 = HSgid (HMK aid (m1 ||m2 ||aid||vid)).
A pair of credentials (cr1 , cr2 ) ensures that both parties have
executed the protocol and acquired the expected output, i.e.,
obtained each other’s key (Kgid or svid ) and measurements (m1
or m2 ). (cr1 , cr2 ) will be submitted to the blockchain through
an Aggregator for audits. To this end, We define a new trusted
entity, Auditor. Legitimate Att or Vrf that has been attested
can become an Auditor to execute this contract in their TEEs.
Our audit contract provides three functions, as formalized
in Algorithm 2.
① T RUST RATING: Participants can upload their configurations
to the blockchain (§V-C1). Auditors can use this contract to
calculate the trust rate based on the configurations of deployed
device. Trust rates can serve as indicators of whether the status
of Att should be auditted in time.
② ATTESTATION REVIEW: Auditors can obtain keys and measurements from the Manager to verify the credentials. As
shown in line 13, 14, they can re-calculate (cr1∗ , cr2∗ ) and
compare them with (cr1 , cr2 ) in a submitted transaction.
③ S POT CHECK: Auditing every credential can bring tremendous computation overhead. Therefore, we allow Auditors
to spot check some credentials, i.e., treat the audit results
of randomly picked credentials as the results of the whole
transaction list. Combined with trust rating, spot check would
significantly improve audit efficiency and minimizes the risk
of missing compromised participants.
The attestation and audit contract well satisfy R2 by enabling various decentralized verification functions and providing consensual and auditable results. Every RA session in
JANUS are now publicly transparent and can be re-verified efficiently, preventing malicous verifiers from exclusively claiming wrong attestation results.
D. Attestation Switch in JANUS
The switch machanism aims to make two functionalities in
JANUS to collaborate with each other. As shown in Figure 7,

Algorithm 2: Smart contract for attestation audit
Input : transaction list l
Output: device trust rate r, audit state st
T RUST RATING
1 if tx.signature is valid then
2
conf ← Parse(tx.payload)// device config
3
r ← Evaluate(conf)
4
Output: r
5 end
S POT CHECK :
6 n ←$ [0, l.size − 1], tx ← l[n]
/* randomly pick one */

if tx.signature is valid then
st ←ATTESTATION REVIEW(tx)
9
Output: st
10 end
ATTESTATION REVIEW
11 Kgid , Sgid , M Kaid , svid , m1 ← RMaid , m2 ← Mvid
7

8

12

/* retrieve them from the Manager */
(cr1 , cr2 ) ← Parse(tx.payload) // credentials

cr1∗ ← HKgid (Hsvid (m1 ||m2 ||aid||vid))
∗
14 cr2 ← HSgid (HM Kaid (m1 ||m2 ||aid||vid))
∗
∗
15 if cr1 = cr1 and cr2 = cr2 then
16
Output: trusted
17 end
18 Output: untrusted

13

it is instantiated by a switch smart contract and switch rules.
When encountering network outages and other incidents, Vrf
and Att can asynchronously determine how they will perform
RA. No other entities or global operators are required, so Vrf
and Att can automatically control their attestation flow, which
addresses the rigid procedure limitation and satisfy (R3).
Switch contract: This contract maintains two fields for every
Att to change the attestation flow: device condition (dc) and
attestation state (as). Both fields take one of the values in
{off-chain, on-chain, both}. Note that dc is only set
by Att and as is set by anyone who wants to conduct RA
with Att, i.e., some verifier.
dc indicates the way in which Att prefers to conduct the attestation, i.e., off-chain protocol or on-chain smart contract. In
practice, the device where Att resides may experience network
outages, low battery power, stressed computing resources, etc.
dc gives Att the leeway to adapt these conditions. as, on
the other hand, indicates how Vrf will initiate an RA session
with Att. Vrf first checks Att’s dc, and if dc=both, then
Vrf can set as to on-chain or off-chain. Otherwise,
as should only be set the same as dc.
For example, if Att cannot establish point-to-point channels
currently, it can trigger the switch contract to update dc to
on-chain since the blockchain is always online. Then Vrf
will choose to conduct on-chain RA functions with Att after
it knows Att’s dc. They can change their attestation flow
independently without interference of any other operators.
Switch rules: We now give some example switch rules to
instruct the switch procedure.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

Attestation Switching
device condition

Switch
Contract

attestation state

Off-chain attestation

Attester

On-chain attestation

Verifier

Attestation
contract

transaction

Performing Attestation

Aggregator

transaction

Audit
contract

Fig. 7: Holistic view of attestation switch in JANUS
S WITCH TO ON - CHAIN: If dc ̸= off-chain, Vrf can
choose on-chain smart contract-based attestation with Att
under the following cases:
• Vrf cannot establish direct communication with Att.
• The attestation results need to be acknowledged by at
least a quorum of verifiers.
• Att’s application is deployed in a distributed manner.
Vrf needs to update as to on-chain through the switch
contract. Then it generates a request transaction to perform
the normal on-chain attestation (§V-C2).
S WITCH TO OFF - CHAIN: If dc̸=on-chain, Vrf can
choose off-chain PUF-based attestation protocols under the
following cases:
• Vrf and Att only need to conduct a routine attestation
(periodically executed for regular check).
• Higher verification efficiency is required for real-time
systems like IoV and IoT.
• Vrf needs off-chain attestation for other reasons, e.g.,
privacy concerns, personal needs.
These switch rules enable Vrf and Att to switch between
on-chain or off-chain attestation seamlessly. Administrators
can configure customized rules for their RA system. In the
first two cases, Vrf are not required to update as. It directly
sends the challenge of step ① in §V-B2 to start the attestation.
For the third case, Vrf should first update as to off-chain
before the attestation. Note that Vrf and Att are required to
submit their credentials for audits afterward in all three cases.
E. Use Cases
JANUS provides a more open TEE RA framework with
end-to-end trusted and resilient procedure for many realworld applications. In addition to the systems such as cloud
computing and IoT, which frequently utilize RA, JANUS can
be integrated into several emerging scenarios.
• Function as a Service (FaaS). Our on-chain functions
benefit distributed services like FaaS [33]. FaaS allows developers to deploy their applications in small functions. Given
the highly dispersed nature of code deployment, traditional
RA schemes may suffer from efficiency issues as they have
to attest each function individually. In JANUS, distributed
functions can be attested in a batch through our contract.

10

• BeyondCorp. Google BeyondCorp [35] is a security
framework that implements a zero trust model, which shifts
access controls from the network perimeter to individual
devices. It requires continuous monitoring to verify the status
of devices before granting access. The lightweight off-chain
protocols and snapshotting mechanism in JANUS attestation
can well support these needs.
• Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) CISA TIC initiative
[36] was established to enhance the federal networks by standardizing and consolidating network connections. It requires
a trust-level evaluation and auditing capability, with the aim
of reducing the number of access points while maintaining
network resilience. JANUS can also offer suitable attestation
functions like trust rating and resilient RA procedure, to meet
TIC standards in real-world systems in real-world systems.
VI. JANUS SECURITY
A. Security Proof of PUF-based Protocols
We first formalize the PUF definition and give the idealized
PUF properties as follows.
Definition 1: (Ideal PUF) Let P be a PUF family where
R = puf(C) for ∀puf ∈ P and C, R ∈ {0, 1}∗ . P is an
ideal PUF family if |C|= |R|= n and for any probabilistic
polynomial-time (PPT) distinguisher A, we have,
n
• (Pseudorandomness) ∀puf ∈ P, ∀C ∈ {0, 1} ,
h
i
h
i
1
(1)
Pr Apuf(C) ⇒ 1 − Pr A$ ⇒ 1 ≤ n · ϵ,
2
where ϵ is a negligible value related to n and $ denotes
a random bits oracle.
n
• (Uniqueness) ∀puf1 , puf2 ∈ P, ∀C ∈ {0, 1} , let p(C) =
puf0 (C) ⊕ puf1 (C),
h
i
h
i
′
1
Pr Ap(C) ⇒ 1 − Pr A$ ⇒ 1 ≤ n · ϵ . (2)
2
• (Unclonability) Each PUF instance has a unique physical
structure. Any attempt to evaluate a pre-installed PUF
instance in simulation environments such as hardware
debugging would change its response generation process
and turn it into a different instance.
In this work, we utilize Universally Composable (UC)
framework [46] to depict the security of our off-chain protocols in §V-B1 and §V-B2. UC aims to rigorously demonstrate
the (in)distinguishability of the protocol execution in the real
world and ideal world. In the ideal world, an ideal functionality
F describes the abstracted interfaces that a protocol wishes
to achieve. Therefore, we propose the first mutual attestation
ideal functionality Fatt in Appendix §A.
Then a Simulator S in the ideal world emulates the protocol
execution and behaviors of the real-world adversary A. The
protocol realizes the ideal functionality if an environment
machine Z cannot distinguish the observed output is from
the real world or the ideal world. For JANUS, we have the
following theorem to prove,
Theorem 1: If the AEAD algorithm (E, D) provides ciphertext indistinguishability under chosen ciphertext attack (INDCCA), the hash function H is collision resistant and puf is an
ideal PUF, then the PUF-based attestation protocols of JANUS

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

11

with respect to a global database L UC-realizes Fatt against
a static adversary A.
Proof The complete proof is given in the Appendix §A. □
B. Security Analysis
We now give the security analysis against different attacks
and describe how JANUS is capable of defending against them.
As shown in Table II, JANUS can resist all attacks included
in the threat model (§IV-A), while other designs can only
partially resist them.
TABLE II: Security comparison of (TEE) RA schemes
Designs
SGX RA [4]
OPERA [21]
MATEE [53]
LIRA-V [39]
SCRAPS [31]
JANUS

: Resisted;

A1

A2

A3

: Partially resisted;

A4

A6

A7

: not resisted;

• Channel attacks: JANUS has adopted complete protocol
design and cryptographic techniques to prevent Adv from
replaying, modifying, or forging any messages in an open
channel. For the off-chain PUF-based protocols, the AEAD
algorithm (E, D) ensures data confidentiality, integrity, and
authenticity, while the PUF-based authentication operations
in LA guarantee the authenticity of (Z, t). For the on-chain
verification and snapshot structure, JANUS ensures that the
channel attackers cannot tamper with the messages. Moreover,
our UC-based security proof shows that the security strength of
our protocols is bounded by PUF and cryptographic primitives.
• DoS attacks: As assumed in §IV-A, the DoS attacks
here are similar to those in other works [31], [32], referring
to Adv sending massive meaningless and erroneous attestation requests to a legitimate Att to exhaust the device
resources. JANUS can mitigate this attack in three ways:
(1) The blockchain is naturally a robust distributed system
that withstands numerous data requests. (2) If the system is
overwhelmed, the duplex architecture of JANUS allows users
to opt for off-chain protocols, or the other way around. This
resilience helps guarantee the continuous service delivery. (3)
Meanwhile, in our protocol design, most operations are based
on lightweight primitives, e.g., AEAD algorithm, thereby
imposing no excessive computational burdens on Att.
• Physical probing: If Adv physically acquires the attested
devices, it can repeatedly trigger the RA procedure to generate
side-channel power leakage to deduce the key, or it directly
dumps the binary in external memory to find the secret information. However, in our design, Kgid is constructed through
PUF-based XOR masking. It can remain secure under the
semi-invasive attack manners even if MK aid is exposed by
power side-channel analysis or memory read-out. Also, our
PUF-based RA protocol §V-B2 avoids using a fixed encryption
key on the attester side in each session, thereby preventing the
highly correlated power leakage.
• Chip delayering: Furthermore, if Adv adopts invasive
physical attacks such as FIB and LVP to reveal the electrical

layout inside the TEE chip, such destructive attack would
unavoidably damage the original structure of the embedded
PUF instances. Therefore, even if Adv manages to extract the
TEE root key, it will be unable to generate valid attestation
reports and pass the verification without PUF. Most RA
designs cannot resist this type of attacks since they rely on
a centralized TEE root key instead of physics-based trust.
• PUF modeling attacks: The communication messages in
RA protocols and smart contracts do not expose raw PUF
CRPs during transmission, preventing Adv from gathering
them to train a PUF model. Moreover, PUF’s I/O bus is usually
sealed in the chip [55], [56] and thus not exposed to the
outside. As a result, Adv cannot directly invoke PUF unless it
uses invasive measures, which, as previously explained, would
alter the original IC status and turn PUF unavailable. Also,
JANUS is PUF-agnostic and can use various PUF designs [97]–
[99] with better modeling resilience.
• Rogue verifier and collusion: The decentralized attestation
contract in §V-C2 prevents rogue verifiers from intentionally
declaring the false attestation results. For off-chain protocols,
even if there are corrupted verifiers that produce untrusted
results, our audit contract helps identify such compromises
and minimize the impact that rogue verifiers bring.
VII. I MPLEMENTATION AND E VALUATION
A. JANUS Implementation
We provide a PoC implementation of JANUS in this paper.
For off-chain attestation protocols, we use a LPC55S69 evaluation board as the verifier and an Dell EMC R750 Server
as the attester. LPC55S69 enables ARM TrustZone and has
dual core Arm Cortex-M33 up to 150 MHz. It is a widely
used general-purpose IoT device [100]. The EMC Server is
with 512 GB RAM and with Intel Xeon Gold 6330 3.1 GHz
processor enabling SGX. We set an (8,8)-IPUF [45] instance
on a Digilent Nexys board with Xilinx Artix-7 embedded.
IPUF is connected to the EMC Server to be the second
RoT. The LPC board communicates with the EMC server
using socket API. They simulate the scenario where distributed
application modules require mutual RA.
For on-chain smart contracts, we use Hyperledger Sawtooth
[44] to implement our smart contracts in Docker containers, as
in [31], [32], The contracts are deployed on the EMC server
and thus will be running with the attester code. We allow
remote devices to access the Sawtooth network via REST
API and the exposed container ports. Then the LPC board
can interact with the Sawtooth blockchain.
B. Prototype Evaluation
1) Off-Chain Protocol Evaluation: Table IV compares the
theoretical performance of the PUF-based RA protocol in
§V-B2 with SGX and LIRA-V [39].
Theoretical comparison: We can see that JANUS has a
compact protocol structure using three-round interactions to
complete mutual attestation. Compared to other protocols,
JANUS only needs asymmetric primitives in measurement
signing, resulting in lower computation overhead on resourceconstrained platforms. And JANUS is the only one to achieve

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

12

TABLE III: Performance of off-chain remote attestation of JANUS
Items
SGX Server

Overall
1.18 ms

LPC55S69

Local Attestation
Challenge
Response
0.12ms

0.81 ms

-

Overall
4.98 ms
510.46 ms

Remote Attestation
Challenge
Response
0.04 ms (②)
1.64 ms (③)
2.16 ms (⑥)
3.47 ms (①)
341.98 ms (⑤)
164.12 ms (④)

Binary
size (KB)

PUF
((8,8)-IPUF)

Communication
Latency

548

2267 LUT +
295 FF,
14ms†

3 ms ∼
7 ms

348

†: including the latency of serial port communication;

UC-based provable security. Also, JANUS does not necessitate the pre-storage of cryptographic materials for peer-topeer communication, reducing storage overhead to constant
complexity. Therefore, the off-chain protocol of JANUS is
lightweight and scalable for numerous devices.
TABLE IV: Comparison of PUF-based RA protocols
Properties
RoT Type
No. of RoT
Mutual RA
Security proof
Signature calls
Key agreement
Protocol round

Sanctum RA [5]
Key
1
✗
✗
2
ECDH
2

[28]
Key
1
✗
✗
2
N/A
2

[89]
PUF
1
✗
✗
1
N/A
4

JANUS
PUF
2
✓
✓
2
PUF XOR
3

Microbenchmark: The performances of the protocols are
given in Table III. We here choose ASCON AEAD [101],
SHA256 and ECDSA with secp256r1. The devices genuinely
execute the PUF-based RA protocol (∼1000 LoC) meanwhile we use gettimeofday() and hardware cycle counter
KIN1_DWT_CYCCNT to record the latency.
The local attestation protocol (∼1500 LoC) involving no
asymmetric cryptographic operations can be completed in less
than 1.2 ms on SGX enclaves in the server. The majority
of computation latency for the RA protocol comes from
the signing and verifying operation that is about 157.7 ms
and 337.30 ms on the LPC board. The AEAD-based design
can save considerable computation resources. Also, the raw
executable files are 548 KB and 348 KB on each platform,
making it resource-friendly and highly portable.
2) On-Chain Smart Contract Evaluation: We implement
the smart contracts in Python (∼600 LoC) and the corresponding client in C (∼800 LoC) that allows devices to form and
send the transactions to Sawtooth Network.
Microbenchmark: Table V summarizes the overall performance of on-chain attestation of JANUS. We measure the
performance from two perspectives: (1) client preparation and
(2) contract execution. For (1), except the attestation data
generation, the required operations by Sawtooth including data
serialization and transaction wrapping bring much overhead
actually. Hence, as shown in Table V, the computation latency
on the board is about 300 ms∼400 ms and the server is about
3 ms∼4 ms. For (2), off-chain data submissions are executed
faster than transaction payload verification. The submission
latency of three contracts are all less than 5 ms and is
acceptable for real-time systems. Our tests also find out that
the LPC board requires about 12 ms to retrieve the stored data
on-chain through unix sockets in local network. These results

show that our off/on-chain interactions do not adversely affect
the overall performance of the entire RA procedure in JANUS.
3) Scalability Evaluation: We present the scalability evaluation of JANUS’s off-chain and on-chain attestation
Baselines: We choose [81], [39] as the off-chain comparison
baseline and [31] for on-chain. [81] presents an PUF-based
authentication protocol and [31] also uses smart contract for
attestation and thus is partially similar with JANUS’s on-chain
functions.

(a) Off-chain RA protocol

(b) On-chain Attestation
Fig. 8: Scalability evaluation of JANUS when increasing the
involved attested participants

Comparison: Figure 8a illustrates the storage cost incurred by
a Vrf when communicating with other Atts. Compared with
[39], [81], JANUS requires the minimal cryptographic materials
in E2E communication. Figure 8b provides a comparison of
on-chain attestation latency between JANUS and SCRAPS
[31]. JANUS exhibits a slower upward trend as the number
of Att increases and save many interaction latency than
SCRAPS. JANUS can offer better scalable off-chain and onchain attestation services for large-scale networks.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

13

TABLE V: Performance of onchain attestation of JANUS
Side
Contract

Client

Item
Script size
Off-chain Data submission
TX Payload Verification
Total calls
Platform
EMC SGX Server
LPC55S69

Attestation
8.0 KB
2.5 ms
29.6 ms
3
Challenge
3.15 ms
341.26 ms

Audit
8.0 KB
3.7 ms
8.3 ms
2

Attestation report
3.75 ms
486.25 ms

VIII. D ISCUSSION
In this section, we further discuss why the purpose of
choosing PUF in this work is different from others, and
additional efforts of integrating PUF into real-world TEEs.
A. Decentralized Trust of PUF for TEE
PUF internalizes environmental randomness on its structure.
It provides a way to create physical intrinsic trust, which is
desired in current TEEs. The following characteristics of PUF
make it an essential component for TEE RA.
• New security guarantees: TEE, TPM and HSM use the
same way of ensuring the security, i.e., sealing the fused
private keys. However, PUF introduces a new security
paradigm by the unique intrinsic structures instead of a
given key. It eliminates the target, e.g., keys, of many
attacks and thus offers new and stronger guarantees in
addition to the sealing key-based approach.
• Independent trust: PUF reserves an untouched area in
circuits that cannot be modified by others (even its manufacturer) once the fabrication is completed. Therefore,
it creates a new source of trust that is truly independent.
Compared to other PUF-based works, we provide this
insight to further exploit its capabilities, which is beyond
than the PUF-backed key generation or physical hashing.
• Succinct usage: PUF only exposes challenge and response port. Compared with TPM and other techniques,
PUF has a quite succinct usage which benefits the integration into many security designs.
The succinct usage of PUFs leads to apparent similarities
between some PUF-based RA designs [84], [85], [89] and
JANUS. The fundamental difference lies in that we address
the long-standing issue of trust establishment in TEE RA by
leveraging the independent trust and new security guarantee
of PUFs, which has not been well explored by other studies.
B. Integrating PUF into TEEs
Intel [59], NXP [55] and Xilinx [56] have released products
with integrated PUF. With PUF being standardized [63], [64],
a hardware ecosystem with built-in PUF can be expected. Here
we discuss a possible roadmap of integrating it into TEE.
The hardware integration of PUF in TEE would require xPU
(e.g., CPU, GPU and NPU) extensions and new xPU-PUF
interface design. Potential efforts include: (1) On the PUF side,
it should be defined as an attestable fixed function module. It
should be setup with a clear secure model (e.g., side-channel
resistant). (2) On the xPU side, new hardware extensions

Credentials
3.11 ms
333.81 ms

Request
3.08 ms
324.75 ms

Attestation Switch
5.7 KB
4.4 ms
2
dc update
3.06 ms
325.85 ms

as submission
3.17 ms
338.60 ms

or drivers should be added to cooperate with the installed
PUF. Then TEE/RA related instructions (e.g., measurement or
signing) could optionally be enforced by PUF. (3) The (offdie) physical link between xPU and PUF should be encrypted.
It may also need access control and memory management. We
leave the off-the-shelf implementation for future work.
C. Limitations
We identify two limitations of JANUS. First, PUF here
cannot operate alone to obtain measurements in case of
TEE failures. It must work in TEE to generate the physical
attestation endorsements in a nested way. We intend to address
this limitation in the future. Second, JANUS does not provide
formally-verified smart contract functions including the attestation switch. Therefore, their security strength is difficult to be
evaluated. We consider leveraging TEE to enhance the security
and privacy of the contract execution [40].
IX. C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK
To decentralize the trust establishment in traditional TEE
RA designs, we propose using PUF as an additional intrinsic RoT to break the closed RA architecture dominated by
TEE manufacturers. Our PUF-based attestation protocols are
lightweight in both computation and storage. And to eliminate
the centralization in single-party verification, we design several
smart contracts to build a publicly verifiable and permanently
reviewable procedure. Our switch mechanism combines the
different attestation functionalities of JANUS to form a resilient
RA service. JANUS thoroughly addresses the limitations of
over-centralization and lack of resilience that exist in nearly
all TEE RA schemes. It can be a comprehensive solution of
increasing trust in TEE and shed some light on designing a
more secure and trusted TEE RA paradigm.
In the future, we plan to overcome the aforementioned
drawbacks of JANUS. We will design a dedicated PUF-based
measuring mechanism for different platforms including TEE.
It is expected to achieve lightweight runtime measuring by
PUF. Building on this and JANUS framework, we will explore
how to use PUF to provide runtime measurement and design
PUF-based unified heterogeneous TEE systems.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors would like to thank the editors and anonymous
reviewers for their work. This work is supported by National
Science and Technology Major Project (No. 2022ZD0120304)
and Shanghai Science and Technology Innovation Action
Program (No. 22511101300).

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

R EFERENCES
[1] H. Birkholz, D. Thaler, M. Richardson, N. Smith, and W. Pan,
“Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS) Architecture,” RFC 9334,
Jan. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9334
[2] Microsoft, “Microsoft Azure Attestation,” https://azure.microsoft.com/
en-us/products/azure-attestation, 2021.
[3] AWS Nitro Enclaves, “Cryptographic attestation,” https://docs.aws.
amazon.com/enclaves/latest/user/set-up-attestation.html, 2023.
[4] V. Costan and S. Devadas, “Intel SGX explained,” Cryptology ePrint
Archive, 2016, https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/086.pdf.
[5] V. Costan, I. A. Lebedev, and S. Devadas, “Sanctum: Minimal hardware
extensions for strong software isolation,” in 25th USENIX Security
Symposium, USENIX Security 16, 2016, pp. 857–874.
[6] D. Lee, D. Kohlbrenner, S. Shinde, K. Asanović, and D. Song,
“Keystone: An Open Framework for Architecting Trusted Execution
Environments,” in Fifteenth EuroSys Conference, 2020, pp. 38:1–38:16.
[7] P. Kocher, J. Horn, A. Fogh, D. Genkin, D. Gruss, W. Haas, M. Hamburg, M. Lipp, S. Mangard, T. Prescher, M. Schwarz, and Y. Yarom,
“Spectre attacks: Exploiting speculative execution,” in 2019 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2019, pp. 1–19.
[8] M. Lipp, M. Schwarz, D. Gruss, T. Prescher, W. Haas, A. Fogh,
J. Horn, S. Mangard, P. Kocher, D. Genkin, Y. Yarom, and M. Hamburg,
“Meltdown: Reading kernel memory from user space,” in 27th USENIX
Security Symposium, 2018, pp. 973–990.
[9] S. van Schaik, M. Minkin, A. Kwong, D. Genkin, and Y. Yarom,
“Cacheout: Leaking data on intel cpus via cache evictions,” in 2021
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2021, pp. 339–354.
[10] M. Lipp, A. Kogler, D. F. Oswald, M. Schwarz, C. Easdon, C. Canella,
and D. Gruss, “PLATYPUS: software-based power side-channel attacks
on x86,” in 42nd IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2021, pp.
355–371.
[11] A. Tang, S. Sethumadhavan, and S. J. Stolfo, “CLKSCREW: exposing
the perils of security-oblivious energy management,” in 26th USENIX
Security Symposium, 2017, pp. 1057–1074.
[12] A. Cui and R. Housley, “BADFET: defeating modern secure boot using
second-order pulsed electromagnetic fault injection,” in 11th USENIX
Workshop on Offensive Technologies, 2017.
[13] P. Qiu, D. Wang, Y. Lyu, and G. Qu, “VoltJockey: Breaching trustzone by software-controlled voltage manipulation over multi-core frequencies,” in Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, 2019, pp. 195–209.
[14] R. Buhren, H. N. Jacob, T. Krachenfels, and J. Seifert, “One Glitch
to Rule Them All: Fault Injection Attacks Against AMD’s Secure Encrypted Virtualization,” in 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security, 2021, pp. 2875–2889.
[15] S. van Schaik, A. Seto, T. Yurek, A. Batori, B. AlBassam, C. Garman,
D. Genkin, A. Miller, E. Ronen, and Y. Yarom, “SoK: SGX.Fail: How
stuff get eXposed,” https://sgx.fail, 2022.
[16] J. V. Bulck, D. Moghimi, M. Schwarz, M. Lipp, M. Minkin, D. Genkin,
Y. Yarom, B. Sunar, D. Gruss, and F. Piessens, “LVI: hijacking transient
execution through microarchitectural load value injection,” in IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE, 2020, pp. 54–72.
[17] M. Schwarz, M. Lipp, D. Moghimi, J. V. Bulck, J. Stecklina,
T. Prescher, and D. Gruss, “Zombieload: Cross-privilege-boundary data
sampling,” in ACM CCS. ACM, 2019, pp. 753–768.
[18] S. van Schaik, A. Kwong, D. Genkin, and Y. Yarom, “SGAxe: How
SGX Fails in Practice,” https://sgaxe.com/files/SGAxe.pdf, 2021.
[19] Google Cloud, “Remote attestation of disaggregated machines,” https:
//cloud.google.com/docs/security/remote-attestation, 2022.
[20] Intel, “Remote Attestation,” https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/
en/developer/tools/software-guard-extensions/attestation-services.html,
2023.
[21] G. Chen, Y. Zhang, and T.-H. Lai, “OPERA: Open Remote Attestation
for Intel’s Secure Enclaves,” in Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security. ACM, Nov.
2019, pp. 2317–2331.
[22] R. Ross and V. Pillitteri, “NIST Special Publication 800-160, Developing Cyber-Resilient Systems,” https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/
SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-160v2r1.pdf, 2021.
[23] Microsoft, “Cloud-native resiliency,” https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/
dotnet/architecture/cloud-native/resiliency, 2022.
[24] ——, “Azure platform resiliency,” https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/
dotnet/architecture/cloud-native/infrastructure-resiliency-azure, 2022.
[25] Google cloud, “Infrastructure design for availability and resilience,”
https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/infrastructure design for
availability and resilience wp.pdf, 2020.

14

[26] Mezzalira, Luca and Hyatt, Laura and Denti, Vittorio
and Jaupaj, Zamira, “Let’s Architect! Creating resilient
architecture,”
https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/architecture/
lets-architect-creating-resilient-architecture/, 2022.
[27] M. Lipp, D. Gruss, R. Spreitzer, C. Maurice, and S. Mangard, “ARMageddon: Cache attacks on mobile devices,” in 25th USENIX Security
Symposium, 2016, pp. 549–564.
[28] R. Román, R. Arjona, and I. Baturone, “A lightweight remote attestation using pufs and hash-based signatures low-end iot devices,” Future
Generation Computer Systems, vol. 148, pp. 425–435, 2023.
[29] Boru Chen and Yingchen Wang and Pradyumna Shome and Christopher W. Fletcher and David Kohlbrenner and Riccardo Paccagnella
and Daniel Genkin, “GoFetch: Breaking Constant-Time Cryptographic
Implementations Using Data Memory-Dependent Prefetchers,” https:
//gofetch.fail/, 2024.
[30] NIST, https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-2193, 2024.
[31] L. Petzi, A. E. B. Yahya, A. Dmitrienko, G. Tsudik, T. Prantl, and
S. Kounev, “SCRAPS: Scalable Collective Remote Attestation for PubSub IoT Networks with Untrusted Proxy Verifier,” in 31st USENIX
Security Symposium, 2022, pp. 3485–3501.
[32] S. F. J. J. Ankergård, E. Dushku, and N. Dragoni, “PERMANENT:
Publicly Verifiable Remote Attestation for Internet of Things Through
Blockchain,” Foundations and Practice of Security, vol. 13291, pp.
218–234, 2022.
[33] Google cloud, “Cloud Functions,” https://cloud.google.com/functions,
2023.
[34] Intel, “Project Amber: Increasing Trust in Confidential Computing,” https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/security/project-amber.
html, 2023.
[35] Google cloud, “BeyondCorp: A new approach to enterprise security.”
https://cloud.google.com/beyondcorp, 2023.
[36] Cybersecurity and I. S. Agency, “Trusted Internet Connections 3.0,”
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/CISA%20TIC%
203.0%20Traditional%20TIC%20Use%20Case.pdf, 2021.
[37] A. Galanou, F. Gregor, R. Kapitza, and C. Fetzer, “MATEE: Multimodal attestation for trusted execution environments,” in Proceedings
of the 23rd ACM/IFIP International Middleware Conference, Nov.
2022, pp. 121–134.
[38] V. Scarlata, S. Johnson, J. Beaney, and P. Zmijewski, “Supporting Third
Party Attestation for Intel® SGX with Intel® Data Center Attestation
Primitives,” Product Brief, 2018.
[39] C. Shepherd, K. Markantonakis, and G. Jaloyan, “LIRA-V: lightweight
remote attestation for constrained RISC-V devices,” in IEEE Security
and Privacy Workshops, 2021, pp. 221–227.
[40] N. Jean-Louis, Y. Li, Y. Ji, H. Malvai, T. Yurek, S. Bellemare, and
A. Miller, “SGXonerated:Finding (and Partially Fixing) Privacy Flaws
in TEE-based Smart Contract Platforms Without Breaking the TEE,”
in Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PoPETs), 2024,
pp. 617–634.
[41] E. Brickell, J. Camenisch, and L. Chen, “Direct anonymous attestation,” in Proceedings of the 11th ACM conference on Computer and
communications security, 2004, pp. 132–145.
[42] R. Pappu, “Physical One-Way Functions,” Ph.D. dissertation, MIT, Sep.
2002.
[43] H. R. Ghaeini, M. Chan, R. Bahmani, F. Brasser, L. Garcia, J. Zhou,
A.-R. Sadeghi, N. O. Tippenhauer, and S. Zonouz, “PAtt: Physics-based
Attestation of Control Systems,” in 22nd International Symposium on
Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses, RAID 2019, 2019, pp.
165–180.
[44] K. Olson, M. Bowman, and J. Mitchell, “Sawtooth: An Introduction,” https://www.hyperledger.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/
Hyperledger Sawtooth WhitePaper.pdf, 2018.
[45] P. H. Nguyen, D. P. Sahoo, C. Jin, K. Mahmood, U. Rührmair, and
M. van Dijk, “The Interpose PUF: Secure PUF design against state-ofthe-art machine learning attacks,” IACR Transactions on Cryptographic
Hardware and Embedded Systems, pp. 243–290, 2019.
[46] R. Canetti, “Universally composable security: A new paradigm for
cryptographic protocols,” in Proceedings 42nd IEEE Symposium on
Foundations of Computer Science. IEEE, 2001, pp. 136–145.
[47] E. Feng, X. Lu, D. Du, B. Yang, X. Jiang, Y. Xia, B. Zang, and
H. Chen, “Scalable memory protection in the PENGLAI enclave,” in
15th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, OSDI. USENIX Association, 2021, pp. 275–294.
[48] J. Yao, “Intel® Trust Domain Extensions,” https://www.
intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/
intel-trust-domain-extensions.html, 2023.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

[49] AMD, “AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV),” https://www.
amd.com/en/developer/sev.html, 2017.
[50] ARM,
“Arm
Confidential
Compute
Architecture,”
https://www.arm.com/architecture/security-features/
arm-confidential-compute-architecture, 2021.
[51] Apple Platform Security, “Secure Enclave,” https://support.apple.com/
en-gb/guide/security/sec59b0b31ff/web, 2021.
[52] Samsung Developers, “SAMSUNG TEEGRIS,” https://developer.
samsung.com/teegris/overview.html, 2019.
[53] G. Chen and Y. Zhang, “MAGE: Mutual Attestation for a Group of
Enclaves without Trusted Third Parties,” in 31st USENIX Security
Symposium, 2022, pp. 4095–4110.
[54] U. Rührmair and M. van Dijk, “Pufs in security protocols: Attack
models and security evaluations,” in 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, SP 2013. IEEE Computer Society, 2013, pp. 286–300.
[55] NXP,
“LPC5500
Series,”
https://www.nxp.com/products/
processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-microcontrollers/
general-purpose-mcus/lpc5500-arm-cortex-m33:LPC5500 SERIES,
2021.
[56] AMD
Xilinx,
“Physically
Unclonable
Function,”
https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/am011-versal-acap-trm/
Physically-Unclonable-Function?tocId=8Lcvsmt7Vkdglr∼m8UuUeg,
2022.
[57] Intrinsic-ID, “QuiddiKey 300, The First Root-of-Trust IP Certified Against Physical Attacks,” https://www.intrinsic-id.com/products/
quiddikey-300/, 2022.
[58] ICTK, “ICTK Technology,” https://ictk.com/Service-Plan, 2022.
[59] Intel Agilex Device Security User Guide, “Intrinsic ID
Physically
Unclonable
Function
(PUF),”
https://www.intel.
com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683823/21-3/
intrinsic-id-physically-unclonable-function.html, 2021.
[60] Lee, Teddy Kyung, “Via PUF Technology as a Root of
Trust in IoT Supply Chain,” https://www.gsaglobal.org/forums/
via-puf-technology-as-a-root-of-trust-in-iot-supply-chain/, 2023.
[61] Intrinsic ID, “Health and Wellness Start with Trust,” https://www.
intrinsic-id.com/markets/medical/, 2020.
[62] Lee, Teddy Kyung, “Industry’s first debut of PUF-USIM chip,” https:
//www.gsaglobal.org/forums/industrys-first-debut-of-puf-usim-chip/,
2023.
[63] “Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection — Physically unclonable functions — Part 1: Security requirements,” International Organization for Standardization, Standard, Dec. 2020.
[64] “Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection — Physically unclonable functions — Part 2: Test and evaluation methods,”
International Organization for Standardization, Standard, May 2022.
[65] I. D. O. Nunes, K. Eldefrawy, N. Rattanavipanon, M. Steiner, and
G. Tsudik, “VRASED: A Verified Hardware/Software Co-Design for
Remote Attestation,” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium, 2019, pp.
1429–1446.
[66] I. De Oliveira Nunes, S. Jakkamsetti, N. Rattanavipanon, and
G. Tsudik, “On the TOCTOU Problem in Remote Attestation,” in
Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, 2021, pp. 2921–2936.
[67] I. D. O. Nunes, K. Eldefrawy, N. Rattanavipanon, and G. Tsudik,
“APEX: A verified architecture for proofs of execution on remote
devices under full software compromise,” in 29th USENIX Security
Symposium, Aug. 2020, pp. 771–788.
[68] S. Surminski, C. Niesler, F. Brasser, L. Davi, and A.-R. Sadeghi,
“RealSWATT: Remote Software-based Attestation for Embedded Devices under Realtime Constraints,” in Proceedings of the 2021 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, 2021,
pp. 2890–2905.
[69] Z. Sun, B. Feng, L. Lu, and S. Jha, “OAT: Attesting Operation Integrity
of Embedded Devices,” in 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy, 2020, pp. 1433–1449.
[70] J. Wang, Y. Wang, A. Li, Y. Xiao, R. Zhang, W. Lou, Y. T. Hou, and
N. Zhang, “ARI: Attestation of Real-time Mission Execution Integrity,”
in 31st USENIX Security Symposium, 2023.
[71] B. Kuang, A. Fu, Y. Gao, Y. Zhang, J. Zhou, and R. H. Deng, “FeSA:
Automatic Federated Swarm Attestation on Dynamic Large-Scale IoT
Devices,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing,
pp. 1–16, 2022.
[72] X. Carpent, K. ElDefrawy, N. Rattanavipanon, and G. Tsudik,
“Lightweight Swarm Attestation: A Tale of Two LISA-s,” in Proceedings of the 2017 ACM on Asia Conference on Computer and
Communications Security. ACM, 2017, pp. 86–100.

15

[73] F. Kohnhäuser, N. Büscher, and S. Katzenbeisser, “A practical attestation protocol for autonomous embedded systems,” in 2019 IEEE
European Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2019, pp. 263–278.
[74] D. Moghimi, B. Sunar, T. Eisenbarth, and N. Heninger, “TPM-FAIL:
TPM meets timing and lattice attacks,” in 29th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 20), 2020, pp. 2057–2073.
[75] H. N. Jacob, C. Werling, R. Buhren, and J.-P. Seifert, “faultpm:
Exposing amd ftpms’ deepest secrets,” 2023.
[76] J. Camenisch, M. Drijvers, and A. Lehmann, “Universally composable
direct anonymous attestation,” in 19th IACR International Conference
on Practice and Theory in Public-Key Cryptography, 2016, pp. 234–
264.
[77] J. Camenisch, L. Chen, M. Drijvers, A. Lehmann, D. Novick, and
R. Urian, “One TPM to Bind Them All: Fixing TPM 2.0 for Provably
Secure Anonymous Attestation,” in 2017 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, 2017, pp. 901–920.
[78] U. Chatterjee, V. Govindan, R. Sadhukhan, D. Mukhopadhyay, R. S.
Chakraborty, D. Mahata, and M. M. Prabhu, “Building PUF Based
Authentication and Key Exchange Protocol for IoT without Explicit
CRPs in Verifier Database,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and
Secure Computing, vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 424–437, May 2019.
[79] M. Umar, S. H. Islam, K. Mahmood, S. Ahmed, Z. Ghaffar, and M. A.
Saleem, “Provable Secure Identity-Based Anonymous and PrivacyPreserving Inter-Vehicular Authentication Protocol for VANETS Using
PUF,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 70, no. 11, pp.
12 158–12 167, 2021.
[80] M. A. Qureshi and A. Munir, “PUF-RAKE: A PUF-Based Robust and
Lightweight Authentication and Key Establishment Protocol,” IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 19, no. 4,
pp. 2457–2475, Jul. 2022.
[81] Y. Zheng, W. Liu, C. Gu, and C.-H. Chang, “PUF-based Mutual
Authentication and Key Exchange Protocol for Peer-to-Peer IoT Applications,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing,
pp. 1–18, 2022.
[82] X. Zhang, D. Gu, T. Wang, and Y. Huang, “Old School, New Primitive:
Towards Scalable PUF-based Authenticated Encryption Scheme in
IoT,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated
Circuits and Systems, pp. 1–1, 2023.
[83] S. Schulz, A.-R. Sadeghi, and C. Wachsmann, “Short paper:
Lightweight remote attestation using physical functions,” in Proceedings of the Fourth ACM Conference on Wireless Network Security,
2011, pp. 109–114.
[84] J. Kong, F. Koushanfar, P. K. Pendyala, A.-R. Sadeghi, and C. Wachsmann, “PUFatt: Embedded Platform Attestation Based on Novel
Processor-Based PUFs,” in Proceedings of the 51st Annual Design
Automation Conference, 2014, pp. 1–6.
[85] A. Mondal, S. Gangopadhyay, D. Chatterjee, H. Boyapally, and
D. Mukhopadhyay, “PReFeR: Physically Related Function based Remote Attestation Protocol,” ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems, vol. 22, no. 5s, pp. 109:1–109:23, 2023.
[86] U. Javaid, M. N. Aman, and B. Sikdar, “Defining trust in IoT
environments via distributed remote attestation using blockchain,” in
Mobihoc 20: ACM International Symposium on Theory, Algorithmic
Foundations, and Protocol Design for Mobile Networks and Mobile
Computing, 2020, pp. 321–326.
[87] M. N. Aman, M. H. Basheer, S. Dash, J. W. Wong, J. Xu, H. W. Lim,
and B. Sikdar, “Hatt: Hybrid remote attestation for the internet of things
with high availability,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 8,
pp. 7220–7233, 2020.
[88] N. Marastoni and M. Ceccato, “Remote Attestation of IoT Devices
using Physically Unclonable Functions: Recent Advancements and
Open Research Challenges,” in Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on
CPS&IoT Security and Privacy. ACM, 2023, pp. 25–36.
[89] R. N. Akram, K. Markantonakis, and K. Mayes, “Remote Attestation
Mechanism for Embedded Devices Based on Physical Unclonable
Functions,” in Radio Frequency Identification System Security, ser.
Cryptology and Information Security Series, vol. 11, 2013, pp. 107–
121.
[90] J. Park and Kwangjo Kim, “TM-Coin: Trustworthy management of
TCB measurements in IoT,” in IEEE International Conference on
Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops, 2017, pp. 654–
659.
[91] M. Bampatsikos, C. Ntantogian, C. Xenakis, and S. C. A. Thomopoulos, “BARRETT: BlockchAin Regulated REmote aTTestation,” in
IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence, 2019,
pp. 256–262.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

[92] Y. Yan, C. Wei, X. Guo, X. Lu, X. Zheng, Q. Liu, C. Zhou,
X. Song, B. Zhao, H. Zhang, and G. Jiang, “Confidentiality support
over financial grade consortium blockchain,” in Proceedings of the
2020 International Conference on Management of Data, SIGMOD
Conference 2020. ACM, 2020, pp. 2227–2240.
[93] R. Li, Q. Wang, Q. Wang, D. Galindo, and M. Ryan, “Sok: Tee-assisted
confidential smart contract,” Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies, vol. 2022, no. 3, pp. 711–731, 2022.
[94] T. Abera, R. Bahmani, F. Brasser, A. Ibrahim, A.-R. Sadeghi, and
M. Schunter, “DIAT: Data Integrity Attestation for Resilient Collaboration of Autonomous Systems,” in Proceedings 2019 Network and
Distributed System Security Symposium, 2019.
[95] A. Ibrahim, A. Sadeghi, G. Tsudik, and S. Zeitouni, “DARPA: device
attestation resilient to physical attacks,” in Proceedings of the 9th ACM
Conference on Security & Privacy in Wireless and Mobile Networks
(WISEC), 2016, pp. 171–182.
[96] M. Bellare, R. Canetti, and H. Krawczyk, “Keying hash functions
for message authentication,” in 16th Annual International Cryptology
(CRYPTO), ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 1109, 1996,
pp. 1–15.
[97] C. Xu, J. Zhang, M. Law, X. Zhao, P. Mak, and R. P. Martins,
“Transfer-path-based hardware-reuse strong PUF achieving modeling
attack resilience with200 million training crps,” IEEE Transactions on
Information Forensics and Security, vol. 18, pp. 2188–2203, 2023.
[98] H. Nassar, L. Bauer, and J. Henkel, “ANV-PUF: machine-learningresilient nvm-based arbiter PUF,” ACM Transactions on Embedded
Computing Systems, vol. 22, no. 5s, pp. 133:1–133:23, 2023.
[99] H. Lin, H. Zuo, Q. Peng, and X. Zhao, “A 690fj/bit ml-attack-resilient
strong PUF based on subthreshold voltage attenuator ring with closedloop feedback,” in IEEE European Solid State Circuits Conference,
ESSCIRC. IEEE, 2023, pp. 113–116.
[100] NXP, “High Efficiency Arm Cortex-M33-Based Microcontroller Family,” https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/
arm-microcontrollers/general-purpose-mcus/lpc5500-arm-cortex-m33/
high-efficiency-arm-cortex-m33-based-microcontroller-family:
LPC55S6x, 2023.
[101] C. Dobraunig, M. Eichlseder, F. Mendel, and M. Schläffer, “ASCON
v1. 2: Lightweight authenticated encryption and hashing,” Journal of
Cryptology, vol. 34, no. 3, p. 33, 2021.

Xiaolin Zhang received from Xidian University
of China, Xi’an, his B.S. degree in cyber security
in 2020. He is currently a Ph.D. candidate under successive postgraduate and doctoral program
at School of Electronic Information and Electrical
Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai. His research interests include design of PUFbased security schemes and cryptography. He has
published scientific papers on IEEE TCAD.

Kailun Qin is currently a DEng candidate at School
of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU), Shanghai. He obtained his master’s degrees respectively
from IMT Atlantique (France) and Nanjing University of Science and Technology (China) in 2017. His
research interests include confidential computing,
trusted execution environment and system security.
He has been an active speaker at multiple cloud and
security industry conferences.

16

Shipei Qu received from Xidian University of
China, Xi’an, his B.S. degree in Electronic Engineering in 2020. He is currently a Ph.D. candidate
at School of Electronic Information and Electrical
Engineering,Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai. His research interests include hardware security
and cryptography.

Tengfei Wang received the B.E. degree and the M.E.
degree from Tianjin University, Tianjin, China, in
2016 and in 2019, respectively. He is currently pursuing the D.E degree from the School of Electronic
Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai. His current research
interests include circuit and system designs for cryptosystems. He has published scientific papers on
IEEE TVLSI and other academic journals.

Chi Zhang is currently a research associate at
School of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai.
He received the B.S. degree in computer science and
technology from Southeast University in 2014, and
the Ph.D. degree in computer science and technology
from Shanghai Jiao Tong University in 2022. His
research interests include cryptographic engineering,
hardware security such as side-channel analysis and
fault inject analysis, and cryptography. He has published scientific papers on TCHES, IEEE TVLSI,
TIFS and DAC, AsianHost and other academic journals and conferences.

Dawu Gu is a distinguished professor at School of
Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU), Shanghai.
He received from Xidian University of China, Xi’an,
his B.S. degree in applied mathematics in 1992,
and his M.S. degree in 1995 and Ph.D. degree in
1998 both in cryptography. His research interests
include crypto algorithms, crypto engineering, and
system security. He was the winner of Chang Jiang
Scholars Distinguished Professors Program in 2014
by Ministry of Education of China. He won the
National Award of Science and Technology Progress in 2017. He is the vice
president of the Chinese Association for Cryptologic Research (CACR). He
has got over 200 scientific papers in top academic journals and conferences,
such as CRYPTO, IEEE S&P, ACM CCS, NDSS, TCHES. He also served as
PC members of international conferences such as ASIACRYPT, ASIACCS,
ACNS, ISC, ISPEC, ICICS, Globecom, IEEE TrustCom, and NSS for more
than 30 times.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

17

Functionality: Fatt
Initialization:
Upon receiving (M EASUREMENT, id, prog) from a party P , generate platform information I and obtain measurement
m := memms(prog, I), then let L[id, prog] := (measured, I, m) and return (M EASURED, id) to P .
• Upon receiving (P ROVISION , id) from P ,
(a) generate the platform key set K and helper data W, update L[id, :].append(K, W);
(b) let L[id, :].state = provisioned and return (P ROVISIONED, W, id) to P .
Mutual Report:
• Upon receiving (C HALLENGE , i, j, progi , ssid) from Pi ,
(a) send the message to S and update L[i, progi ].append(ssid);
(b) if receive (C HALLENGED, A, C, T, ssid) from S, send it to Pj and set L[j, progj ].state = challenged.
• Upon receiving (M UT R EPORT , i, j, progj , ssid) from Pj ,
(a) send the message along with (Ii , progi , Ij , progj ) to S and update L[j, progj ].append(ssid);
(b) if receive (M UTATT R EPORT, ⟨Ai , Ci , Ti ⟩, ⟨Aj , Cj , Tj ⟩, σi , σj , ssid) from S, set L[i, progi ].state = challenged.
Then send (ATTESTATION, Ai , Ci , Ti , ssid) and (ATTESTATION, Aj , Cj , Tj , ssid) to Pi , Pj , respectively.
Mutual Verification:
• Upon receiving (V ERIFICATION , i, j, Ai , Ci , Ti , Aj , Cj , Tj , ssid) from Pi or Pj ,
(a) obtain the signature σi := RecovK i ,Wi (Ai , Ci , Ti ) and σj := RecovKj ,Wj (Aj , Cj , Tj );
(b) if the party is corrupted, or the submitted record and the signature have not appeared or appear more than once,
set f [i, j] := 1 or f [j, i] := 1 accordingly; otherwise let f [i, j] or f [j, i] be the result of PrfVrf K,W (σ, I, m);
(c) set L[i, progi ].state = L[j, progj ].state = attested and send (ATTESTED, f [i, j], ssid), (ATTESTED, f [j, i], ssid) to
Pi , Pj , respectively.
•

Fig. 9: Ideal Functionality of Mutual Attestation

A PPENDIX A
S ECURITY P ROOF
As mentioned in §VI-A, the following definition formalizes
the basic idea of UC-based security proof.
Definition 2: (UC-security) A protocol π UC-realizes the
ideal functionality F, if for any PPT adversary A there exists
a simulator S such that no PPT environment machine Z exists
to distinguish whether it contacts with π and A in the real
world or S and F in the ideal world. We have,
REALπ,A,Z ≈ IDEALF ,S,Z

(3)

where ≈ denotes the computational indistinguishability.
The formalized ideal functionality FAtt for mutual attestation protocols is shown in Figure 9. We omit the repeated
entry check of tape records on aid, vid, ssid in FAtt . Assuming
the system is parameteraized with 1λ , we take the remote
attestation protocol πRA as an example to prove Theorem 1
as follows.
Proof We construct a simulator S that precisely emulates
A’s behaviors. We assume that a PPT adversary A can
statically corrupt any party in πRA , i.e., Vrf or Att, to obtain
its internal state and tape input and output. S runs an internal
copy of A and then proceeds in the following cases.
Case 1. Att and Vrf are both honest.
A in the real world only obtains the channel messages if Att
and Vrf are not corrupted. So S in the ideal world need to simulate the messages exchanged between Att and Vrf in the real
world. Upon receiving P ROVISION from FAtt , S randomly
selects KAtt := (M Kid , K) and KVrf := (sid , S). Upon
receiving C HALLENGE, S obtains RV , RA , RT ←$ {0, 1}n

and simulates M UTATT R EPORT by randomly sampling PUFbased measurement RM and attestation proof σ. Then it uses
AEAD encryption E to get (A, C, T ) for Att and Vrf . It sends
these messages to the internal adversary A who outputs them
to the environment machine Z. We denote AdvIND
πRA ,Fatt (Z) as
the probability upper bound of Z distinguishing them with
the real-world messages, and we have AdvIND
πRA ,Fatt (Z) ≤
Coll
EUF
IND
(Z)+2Adv
(Z)+2Adv
(Z)+Adv
3AdvIND
H (Z) =
Sig
PUF
AEAD
ϵ(λ) where ϵ(λ) is a negligible value (negl) related to λ.
Case 2. Att is corrupted and Vrf is honest.
If A corrupts Att in the real world, S can also obtain the
historical states of Att. Therefore, S can get KAtt to decrypt
the old (C, T ) to obtain the measurement RM and recover
the attestation proof σ during the challenge phase. Then, it
can use these extracted materials to calculate Att’s output
as if they are generated by A in the real world execution.
However, since S cannot obtain the states of Vrf , it has to
simulate Vrf ’s output to Fatt , as in the Case 1. Consequently,
the advantage of Z to distinguish Vrf ’s output should not
EUF
wColl
exceed 2AdvIND
(Z) = ϵ(λ).
AEAD (Z) + AdvSig (Z) + AdvH
Case 3. Att is honest and Vrf is corrupted.
Similar to Case 2, if A corrupts Vrf in the real world,
S can obtain (s, S) to recover its measurement M and the
corresponding proof. Then S simulates Att’s output and
forms (A, C, T ) as the input to Fatt . Since Att is assumed
to be equipped with PUF, S has to randomly sample a
PUF response as the measurement. Z needs to break the
indistinguishability game of ideal PUF, thereby having the
IND
EUF
advantage AdvIND
πRA ,Fatt (Z) ≤ AdvAEAD (Z) + AdvSig (Z) +
wColl
IND
AdvH (Z) + AdvPUF (Z) = ϵ(λ).

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

18

TABLE VI: Real-world Remote Attestation Report Fields
Field

Intel SGX

ACK-TEE

Azure for SGX

SVN

isvsvn, cpusvn

svn

svn

bootloader˙svn, tee˙svn
guest˙svn, microcode˙svn

tpmversion

Measurement

mrenclave

mrenclave

mrenclave

launchmeasurement

-

Signer

mrsigner

mrsigner

mrsigner

authorkeydigest

aikPubHash

Signature

signature

signature

signature

signature

signature

Others

base˙name,
report˙data, isvpoid

product˙id

product˙id,
report˙data

imageid, report˙id
report˙data

vbsReportPresent,
secureBootEnabled

Case 4. Att and Vrf are both corrupted.
This case is straightforward since S can extract all states in
Att and Vrf .
□
Note that the local attestation protocol can also be proven
under the same ideal functionality. Therefore, the full off-chain
attestation procedure of JANUS can achieve UC-security by
directly applying the UC-composable theorem in [46].
A PPENDIX B
C OMPATIBILITY R EAL - WORLD TEE R EMOTE
ATTESTATION
Compatibility: JANUS is designed to have a regular attestation
procedure as we expected. It can be easily integrated with realworld RA schemes by changing the payload field. Table VI
summarizes the attestation report formats of mainstream TEE
RA schemes. Moreover, since the off-chain remote attestation
protocol in §V-B2 preserves a symmetric structure for both
parties, our protocol can be scalable and lightweight regardless
of whether attesters and verifiers have PUF installed. For onchain attestation, the smart contracts are loosely coupled with
device hardware configurations. JANUS focuses more on the
architectural design of attestation and is open to underlying
TEE specifications, making it compatible with different systems with heterogeneous devices.
Table VI summarizes the format of several real-world
TEE RA designs, including Intel SGX, Azure and ACKTEE (Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes). This
table can serve as the evaluation metric of the trust rating in
§V-C3. Auditors can label each device based on the device
configuration details in the table to reflect its trust confidence
level. Additionally, this table can also serve as a reference
for integrating JANUS’s attestation report into real-world TEE
products.

Azure for SEV-SNP

Azure for TPM

