arXiv:2512.14376v1 [cs.CR] 16 Dec 2025

Lost in the Pages: WebAssembly Code Recovery
through SEV-SNP’s Exposed Address Space
Markus Berthilsson

Christian Gehrmann

Markus.Berthilsson@eit.lth.se
Lund University
Lund, Sweden

Christian.Gehrmann@eit.lth.se
Lund University
Lund, Sweden

Abstract—WebAssembly (Wasm) has risen as a widely used
technology to distribute computing workloads on different platforms. The platform independence offered through Wasm makes
it an attractive solution for many different applications that can
run on disparate infrastructures. In addition, Trusted Execution
Environments (TEEs) are offered in many computing infrastructures, which allows also running security sensitive Wasm
workloads independent of the specific platforms offered. However,
recent work has shown that Wasm binaries are more sensitive
to code confidentiality attacks than native binaries. The previous
result was obtained for Intel SGX only. In this paper, we take this
one step further, introducing a new Wasm code-confidentiality
attack that exploits exposed address-space information in TEEs.
Our attack enables the extraction of crucial execution features
which, when combined with additional side channels, allows us
to with high reliability obtain more than 70% of the code in most
cases. This is a considerably larger amount than was previously
obtained by single stepping Intel SGX where only upwards to
50% of the code could be obtained.
Index Terms—security, trusted execution environment, AMDSEV, WebAssembly, code confidentiality, side-channel attack

I. I NTRODUCTION
There is a clear trend towards dynamic usage of computing
resources and networks. For instance, the sixth generation
(6G) of wireless communication networks is expected to
bring about a significant leap in the scope and capabilities of
networked services. The networks are expected to offer ultrahigh data rates, ultra-low latency, ultra-reliability, and energy
efficiency [1]. If it shall be possible to fully utilize the new
capabilities, there is a need to also ensure efficient utilization
of the network resources and the distribution of services. This
requires platform independent solutions for workload orchestration and deployment [2]. Wasm has arisen as one promising
technology to achieve this and is finding usage outside the
original browser environment [3]. However, running security
sensitive workloads in distributed infrastructures comes with
confidentiality and privacy challenges. Usage of TEEs in the
computing infrastructures is one natural direction to address
these problems. TEEs are isolated computation units promising
integrity and confidentiality, which attempts to eliminate this
need of trust to the cloud service providers. Over the past
years, large vendors such as AMD, Intel and ARM have each
introduced their own implementations of TEEs [4], [5], [6],
[7], [8], [9]. Early TEEs were limited to processes, but since
the release of AMD SEV, these TEEs have adopted a Virtual

Machine (VM) based approached. This allows the customer to
develop their system independent of the underlying hardware,
and opens up the possibility to deploy TEE enabled VMs
in cloud infrastructures. However, TEEs are designed with a
harsh threat model where the hypervisor is considered to be
malicious. With the high privileged mode, hypervisors are able
to execute strong attacks using new controlled side channels.
Confidentiality in security has traditionally focused on ensuring that data remains accessible only to authorized users.
While research mainly focuses on protecting input and output
data, intellectual property today represents a massive financial
investment. Consequently, the algorithms and executable logic
themselves effectively become sensitive data, creating a critical
need for code confidentiality.
In the context of cloud computing TEEs, code confidentiality
promises that the software executed by a cloud service customer should remain secret to the cloud provider and any other
adversarial party. This protection differs from data privacy,
where not the data itself being hidden, but the executed
instructions and logic. Recent work on code confidentiality
[10], [11] focuses on the executed instructions themselves,
rather than the confidentiality of the data that is processed by
the code such as variables or keys. In particular, Puddu et. al
showed in [10], that it is possible to extract a large portion of
the Wasm code by single stepping Intel SGX, and in particular
considerable larger piece can be obtained compared to when
doing the same attack on native executed binaries.
In this work, we switch the focus to the AMD SEV-SNP
TEE and present an attack on a Wasm interpreter, breaking
code confidentiality inside the TEE. Wasm promises extra
security in platforms by executing its modules in an isolated
sandbox environment. A Wasm module consists of opcodes
which are executed in a stack based VM managed by a
runtime. However, these opcodes have to be translated to
machine code before execution which results in multiple native
instructions executed for every opcode. As a result, they are
more susceptible for side-channel attacks.
Our attack is performed on a Wasm interpreter by analyzing
the access patterns to memory space. More specifically, we
show that the address space layout is a strong attack vector to
extract more features for a side-channel attack. Through the
use of these features, we were able to recover upwards of 70%
of the executed Wasm opcodes when running on WAMR in a

AMD SEV-SNP enabled machine.
The main contributions of this paper are summarized as
follows:
• We introduce a new recall metric for correct code confidentiality matching in TEEs.
• We present a partly new attack methodology for attacking
Wasm code confidentiality in TEEs. In particular, we
introduce a pre-processing step, where features such as
page address of the Wasm stack and optable are extracted,
which allows robust true operation code matches.
• We demonstrate that with our attack method, we can
perform very efficient code confidentiality attacks on
WAMR running on AMD SEV-SNP obtaining more than
70% of the code on average.
We release all our code and data in an open repository1 .
This work is structured in 9 sections. First, section II
highlights related works, followed by section III which
summarizes a short background relevant for the study. Section
IV describes the attack model with section V introducing
the problem formulation. Section VI explains the attack
methodology with section VII containing an evaluation of the
attack. Section VIII includes a discussion with future works
and mitigations, and section IX concludes the content of the
work.
II. R ELATED W ORKS
Attacks on AMD SEV. Many attacks have been performed
on AMD SEV since its release in 2016. Early versions
lacked CPU register encryption which allowed attacks that
could recover plaintext arbitrarily from memory [12]. AMD
introduced SEV-ES to address this by encrypting CPU register
states. However, SEV-ES did not ensure memory integrity
which enabled attacks from the hypervisor by manipulating
the nested page tables of the guest [13], [14], [15], [16],
[17], [18]. These attacks remap the memory of the SEV-ES
enabled machine, causing the victim machine to either expose
confidential data or execute unwanted code.
SEV-SNP is the latest iteration of SEV. While memory
integrity has been introduced, multiple papers have shown
how the platform is still susceptible to side channel based
attacks. Weaknesses in the encryption method chosen in SEV
have allowed for dictionary attacks [19], [20]. Gast et al. [21]
showed that SEV-SNP still has as many as 228 performance
counters exposed to the hypervisor, allowing a malicious
hypervisor to infer the execution inside the confidential VM.
From this they were able to fully recover RSA-4096 keys.
These results show that SEV-SNP reduces the attack surface
for host-controlled side channels but not entirely.
Attacks on exposed address-space of TEEs. Even when
memory contents are encrypted, the sequence of memory
accesses can reveal sensitive information. Xu et al.[22]
showed on SGX, that by recording the sequence of page
1 https://github.com/eDuuck/Sev-Wasm-Study

faults, an attacker could reconstruct input-dependent control
transfers and data accesses. The authors demonstrated the
severity of this attack vector by extracting full text documents
and images processed by the machine. Lee et al. [23]
performed an a completely undetectable off-chip attack on
SGX. By connecting external hardware to the memory bus,
they were able to monitor memory accesses by the enclave.
From this they were able to recover text document contents
read inside the enclave. Similar to these works, our work
uses the exposed address-space of the TEE to extract more
side-channel features for our attack.

Single-Stepping frameworks. Many side-channel attacks
on TEEs depend on the possibility to pause and inspect the
victim’s state at a granular level. The standard approach for
this is to configure timer-based interruptions to preempt the
victim’s execution after a single instruction or basic block.
This technique was pioneered for Intel SGX in SGX-Step
[24]. An adaptation of the single stepping for AMD SEVSNP was presented in SEV-Step [25], and recently for Intel
TDX in TDXDown [26]. We demonstrate our Wasm code
confidentiality attack using the SEV-Step framework.

Code confidentiality in TEEs. Werner et al. studied the
leakage of instructions in the SEV TEE [27]. The lack of
CPU register confidentiality in early SEV, and the possibility
to trace guest execution through system calls, allowed the
authors to gain critical information from the running guest
without the need to single step it, but merely abort the guest
at critical points by building application fingerprints. With
this approach, they succeed both in breaking TLS obtaining
the plaintext and injecting own keys for disc encryption for
instance. With the introduction of AMD SEV-SNP these
attacks have been prevented. Similar to the work in [27],
we also use instruction fingerprinting to build a reference
database. However, our attack utilizes single stepping of the
guest VM.
As far as we know, the only other paper addressing Wasm
code confidentiality is the work by Ivan Puddu et al. The
authors investigated the instruction leakage of a Wasm
runtime compared to native execution in Intel SGX by
single stepping the enclave [10]. The authors showed that
the reduced instruction set of Wasm combined with the side
channel amplification introduced by interpreters resulted in
significantly less code confidentiality compared to native
execution. They were able to extract upwards to 50% of the
instructions executed using side channels such as: memory
access, branch records and instruction latencies. In this paper,
we make a similar investigation for AMD SEV-SNP but
expand upon it by utilizing memory address space patterns
which shows considerable improved results compare to those
obtained in Puddu et al. for Intel SGX.

III. BACKGROUND
In this section we provide a brief technology background
to the research area of our paper.
Virtualization is a fundamental technology for cloud
computing which allows multiple isolated workloads to share
the same physical hardware. A virtual machine (VM) behaves
as an independent machine with its own operating system
while executing on a shared host, with resource management
performed by the hypervisor [28]. The hypervisor manages
memory translation of the VMs through Nested Page Tables
(NPT) and dedicates hardware to the VMs. On AMD
SEV-SNP, Type-1 (bare-metal) VMs can be run in a TEE,
protected from the rest of the system as shown in figure 1.

Guest 1 Memory

Guest 2 Memory

Processes

Processes

Guest 1 OS

Guest 2 OS

Hypervisor (VMM)

Nested Page Table

AES 256
RAM
Storage

IO

CPU

VM1

VM2

AMD
SP

Fig. 1. Type-1 virtualization with two separate VMs. Guest 1 runs a machine
without SEV-SNP enabled while guest 2 has it enabled. Dedicated hardware
(AMD SP) manages keys for the individual VMs which adds confidentiality
to the memory of guest 2. The hypervisor does not control the AMD SP and
can not access the AES keys.

Secure Memory Encryption (SME) was introduced in
2016 to AMD’s EPYC server processors. SME introduced
a 128-bit AES engine onto the SOC which is able to
perform encryption and decryption to the data that would
reside in main memory. This defense was introduced to add
confidentiality to the main memory in DRAM sticks which
would defend against cold boot attacks [29] or memory bus
snooping based attacks. AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization
(SEV) builds on top of SME, using the same AES engine
but extends the security to multiple different VMs [4].
The CPU-integrated AMD Secure-Processor (SP) generates
and manages the keys for the individual VMs. These keys
are not accessible by the hypervisor. SEV Encrypted State
(SEV-ES) and SEV Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP) are
two extensions to SEV that were released in 2017 and 2019,
respectively. SEV-ES improved the confidentiality of the
guest machines by also encrypting virtual CPU registers
when the hypervisor raises a VMEXIT event, which halts the
execution of the VM [5]. SEV-SNP is the latest version of
SEV which adds integrity of the guest memory [6]. AMD
has proposed AMD Trusted I/O (AMD-TIO) to improve the
security and performance with IO devices, released with the
fifth generation of their AMD EPYC server CPUs.

WebAssembly (Wasm) is a stack-based binary instruction
format introduced in major web browsers in 2017 [30]. Its
primary goal is to create a compilation target that is fast, secure
and portable, making it well suited for deployment on the web.
Wasm defines a set of low-level opcodes executed on a VM,
ensuring that program execution is isolated from the rest of
the machine. The 1.0 version of Wasm specifies 172 statically
defined opcodes which operate on a stack. For example, an
addition instruction (i32.add) pops the top two values of the
stack and pushes the sum back on top of it. Wasm modules
are either compiled from a programming language like C,
or written directly with the Wasm semantics in a wat file.
Although Wasm was originally designed for web browsers,
it’s high performance, portability and security constraints has
motivated the development of dedicated standalone runtimes
which can be deployed outside of web browsers. Examples
include wasmtime, wasmer, WAMR, WasmEdge and wasm3.
In this study, WAMR was the picked runtime because of its
low footprint and being highly modifiable. This made it into
a good candidate for research and it has also been studied
in other papers [10]. Its core executable, iwasm, contains the
interpreter used in our experiments. To keep track of the stack,
iwasm keeps a stack pointer variable which points to to the
top of the stack. After each opcode is executed, the interpreter
fetches the next opcode and uses a lookup table to jump to the
corresponding handler function. From here on, well refer to
this lookup table as the optable as it plays a fundamental
role in the attack methodology we propose.
IV. ATTACK M ODEL
Our attack follows the AMD-SEV threat model [6] in which
only the victim VM and the AMD hardware is considered to
be trusted components. This is in line of assumptions made
in previous related studies [25]. The attack is carried out by a
malicious or compromised hypervisor. As such, our attacker is
able to make modifications to the Linux kernel and the attacker
has full kernel-level privileges. This includes the ability halting
and resuming the execution of a guest VM through the use of
page faults or non-automatic exits.
We assume a victim who deploys a confidential Wasm
workload inside a SEV-SNP–protected VM, for example by
running a standard open-source Wasm runtime. The attacker
is assumed to be capable of identifying which runtime is in
use, consistent with prior work showing that applications can
often be fingerprinted inside TEEs via side-channel leakage
[27], [31]. We assume that the runtime is used without code
obfuscation or custom hardening. We work with the assumption of that a trusted entity is able to load the Wasm application
into the TEE. For instance, through a secure channel. The
provisioning can for example be done into a pre-configured
and trusted cloud VM running on the TEE.
V. P ROBLEM F ORMULATION
Under the previous given threat model, we are interested
to investigate how well an external attacker with full control
of the hypervisor is able to break the AMD SEV-SNP code

confidentiality. We seek suitable side channels to utilize and
with experimental evaluations investigate how large portions
of Wasm code it is possible to extract. The instruction set
of an interpreter like Wasm is much smaller than the x86-64
instruction set, consisting of only 172 core instructions. Every
single instruction that has to be parsed and executed by a
Wasm interpreter has to perform multiple x86-64 instructions,
amplifying the side-channel leakage. Figure 2 shows as an
example how the WAMR interpreter amplifies the leakage of
a simple (i32.add) instruction to 8 assembly instructions. This
trace of instructions will cause memory access patterns which
also leak information about the parsed opcodes.
C Code
HANDLE_OP(WASM_OP_I32_ADD)
{
frame_sp -= 1;
*(frame_sp-1) += *frame_sp;
goto *handle_table[*frame_ip++];
}

x86-64 Assembly
endbr64
sub
rbx,
4
mov
eax,
[rbx]
add
rbp,
1
add
[rbx-4], eax
movzbl eax,
[rbp-1]
mov
rax,
[r10+rax*8]
jmp
rax
Fig. 2. WAMR Classic Interpreter handler for i32.add in C source code and
resulting x86-64 assembly output after compilation.

VI. M ETHODOLOGY
Our goal is to determine the Wasm code for an unknown
application. We approach the problem by performing an attack
in two phases; First a profiling phase where known code is run
by the attacker on an identical system which is going to be
attacked later. The second phase is the attack phase where
victim execution is intercepted, and the confidential code is
comprised based on the result from the first phase. Each of
these phases are carried out in 3 steps. The first two steps are
identical in both the profiling and the attack phase while the
third step differs. The first step is to collect side-channel data
by single-stepping a VM through the use of the SEV-Step (see
section II). In the second step the data is pre-processed and
features are extracted from the side-channel data. The final
third step differs for the profiling and attack phase. In the
profiling phase, the third step consist of building a database
of fingerprints of the different Wasm opcodes. In the attack
phase, we match the extracted data to the database constructed
in the profiling phase. The rest of this section describes these
four different steps in more detail.
A. Data Collection
We use the SEV-Step framework which consist of a custom
Linux kernel with a modified Kernel Virtual Machine (KVM)
module. The stepping of the machine is achieved by by utilizing Non-Automatic Exits (NAE) which triggers a VMEXIT in

the victim VM, after which data can be collected for side
channel analysis. The NAEs are timed with an Advanced
Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC) to occur just as the
VM resumes its execution. This allows the VM to fetch and
execute a single instruction before managing the VMEXIT. A
spin-lock keeps the machine frozen until the hypervisor has
performed the desired actions such as performing measurements or modifying the nested page tables.
As single-stepping slows down the machine significantly,
it should only be performed when the machine is executing
the targeted interpreter. One way to achieve this is through
page-faults which are used to track the access patterns of the
victim to set appropriate breakpoints of the measurements.
Prior works [14], [27], [31] has shown how side-channel
information can be used to fingerprint applications to great
accuracy.
Once the iwasm binary has been loaded, single-stepping is
enabled. Side-channel information is collected until the interpreter finishes the Wasm module. After each step, instruction
latency and memory interaction is recorded as side-channel
data. Works such as [32], [33], [34] has shown how different
x86 instructions have different timing characteristics which
leaks information about the system. This latency is measured
as the time it takes from the NAE to be triggered until the
machine has been paused. After each single-step, access rights
to all the victim memory pages are removed. When execution
of the victim machine is resumed, multiple page-faults will
be raised as the CPU accesses different memory regions in
preparation to execute the next instruction. These page-faults
reveal if the fetched memory location will be executed (E),
written to (W) or read (R). In our side-channel collection, we
store the amount of page-faults an instruction raises, the type
of page-fault, page address and instruction latency.
B. Data Pre-processing
After collecting the side channel data through side-stepping,
we pre-process the data to remove redundant data and extract
important features in the measurement. As mentioned in section III, iwasm uses an optable to get the correct handler
function for each Wasm instruction. The first step of preprocessing is to extract the page location of the optable.
Once the iwasm interpreter fetches an instruction, it uses
the optable to look up the corresponding handler function
before executing the jump instruction. This creates a characteristic read-then-execute pattern that appears regularly in
in the side-channel trace. By filtering the collected data for
this pattern, we can reliably extract the page containing the
optable. In all of our experiments, we were able to extract
the correct page corresponding to the optable using this
approach.
The stack can be extracted in a similar manner. Now pages
are filtered by picking pages that are often read and written
to. Since the optable and stack pages are accessed in close
proximity, we pick the best set of potential stack pages that
ensure that most regions with optable accesses also contain
at least one of the stack page candidates.

Finally we can remove redundant data such as operations done
outside of the interpreter binary. This is done to speed up the
matching process in the attack phase.
C. Profiling
After collecting and pre-processing data from known execution in a SEV-SNP enabled machine, we match segments of
the side-channel data to Wasm opcodes. The goal is then to
build up a database of traces that will be used to fingerprint the
Wasm opcodes which will later be matched against executions
of unknown Wasm modules inside the trusted execution environment. We began by constructing a reference Wasm module
from a wat file containing all instructions defined in the
Wasm MVP specification. This module was then loaded into a
modified WAMR runtime, running inside a VM protected by
AMD SEV-SNP. The modification introduced an additional
memory write to a known pre-allocated page before the fetch
of each new Wasm instruction. The addresses from the page
faults reveal which events relate to these extra instructions,
which then splits the captured trace up into segments. The
segments were then matched to the known Wasm execution,
creating a database of instruction fingerprints as illustrated in
figure 3. This method of profiling would be applicable to other
runtimes and TEEs as well, as long as page-faults can be
abused by the attacker. All that is needed is to introduce a
dedicated page-write in the attacked runtime, prior to fetching
the each new instruction.

0x2CC88
0x26A4D
0x2CC78
0x2CC78
0x21A74
0x21A74

W-9
R-8
E-5
E-5
R-7
E-5
..
.

5398
5482
5280
5555
5640
5640

i32.add
Latencies

Instruction Type
R,E,E,E,R,E,W,R
#PF
8,5,5,5,7,5,9,8

drop
drop

Latency
5400
5540
5280
5651
5365

i32.add

Mode-#PF
W-9
R-8
E-5
E-5
E-5
..
.

In the attack phase, the executed opcodes of the victim machine is unknown. Traces are first captured and pre-processed
in the same steps as in the profiling phase. As mentioned
earlier, the following side channels are collected: instruction
latency, instruction type, amount of page-faults per instruction
and page addresses. From the page addresses we extract the
stack pages and the optable page in pre-processing. The
steps of the attack phase is illustrated in figure 4. When the
algorithm evaluates one or multiple segments, it calculates a
score for all the fingerprints in the database. For each sidechannel trace in a segment, a score between zero and one is
calculated. The final score is then the sum of multiplying these
scores together, with a maximum value of one and a minimum
value of zero.
For numerical side channels, such as latencies and the amount
of page-faults from a single instruction, Pearson correlation
coefficient is used:
Pn
(xi − x)(yi − y)
pPn
(1)
rxy = pPn i=1
2
x)2
(x
−
i
i
i (yi − y)
Where n is the segment length, x is the measured data from
the attack and y is the data in the fingerprint. x and y are the
average over the sample size.
Discrete side channels use a use hamming distances to calculate a trace score. This includes: instruction type (R,W,E),
stack access and optable page accesses. As the hamming
distance is unbounded growing function, we used the following equation to limit the score between zero and one:

Database

Side-channel data
Address
0x2CC88
0x26A4D
0x2CC78
0x2CC79
0x2CC79

D. Matching

Latencies

Instruction Type
R,E,E,R,E,E
#PF
8,5,5,7,5,5

Fig. 3. Process of profiling the victim machine. After collecting a trace
of side-channel data, segments are spliced from the side-channel data with
the introduced writes, highlighted in gray. The following segments are then
matched to individual Wasm instructions which are stored in a database.

To establish a ground truth, we executed the same module
on an unmodified WAMR instance to verify our trace segments. Additional traces were collected from Wasm modules
compiled from small C programs, broadening the instruction
coverage and contextual diversity of our dataset. After collection, the raw fingerprints were filtered to remove redundant entries. Specifically, fingerprints exhibiting identical page-access
patterns, trace lengths, stack behaviors, and other structural
traits were grouped together. Each group’s latency measurements were then averaged to produce a single representative
fingerprint, yielding a clean and consistent dataset suitable for
subsequent analysis.

ss =

1+

1
i=1 1(xi ̸= yi )

Pn

(2)

Where
Pn ss is the score from a single discrete side-channel and
i=1 1(xi ̸= yi ) is the hamming distance between the two
input vectors x and y. Once all the individual scores for each
side channel is calculated. The final score is the multiplied
sum of the individual side channel scores. The best matched
fingerprint is picked and the corresponding Wasm opcode is
extracted.
While there may be better ways to calculate the fingerprinting
score, we found that this method were robust and performed
well. Any function that inputs two vectors and outputs a
scalar between zero and one could be used for the matching
algorithm.
VII. E VALUATION
To evaluate the effectiveness of our attack we need to define
a metric of the performance. In the matching phase, our script
will select a region of our pre-processed data based upon
optable accesses. From this region it will compare all the
instructions from the fingerprint database and pick the best
match. If the extracted opcode matches the executed opcode
by the victim machine, we have an correct outcome. However,
some instructions like call and memory.grow accesses the
same page as the optable is stored in, resulting in multiple
accesses to that page. Since our algorithm uses the accesses to

Trace
Capture

i32.add

call

i32.const i32.const

i32.mul

call

Data
Pre-Processing

Matching

i32.add

call

✓

NULL

✓

f32.const

call

NULL

drop

local.get

E

E

M

E

I

Fig. 4. The three stages of attack phase. 1. Data is captured when a SEV-SNP enabled machine is running a trace of Wasm instructions. 2. The data is
preprocessed, top graph representing the latencies of individual x86 instructions and the bottom graph containing gray lines for when the optable page is
accessed and red lines when operations modify the stack. 3. The matching algorithm extracts instructions based on the preprocessed side-channel data. Either
getting a correct output (✓), error (E), miss (M) or insertion (I).

the optable page to split our measurement file, this would
result to multiple opcodes extracted from a single opcode. To
remedy this, we insert a NULL opcode in this region to indicate
the lack of a new instruction as illustrated at the bottom row
of figure 4.
Thus, there are four different possible outcomes from the
extraction of a region. Aside from the correct extraction,
we can have an error where the extracted opcode does not
match the executed opcode. If the algorithm extracts a call
the following region will result as a NULL opcode. If this
NULL instruction region actually corresponds to a different
instruction, then the algorithm has missed an instruction.
Similarly, if the machine executes a call and the algorithm
extracts another opcode, then an insertion will be made on
the following region. Thus, we use a recall metric for our
evaluation defined as:
rc = 1 −

E+M +I
N

(3)

Where N is the total number of extraction regions. E is
the total number of wrongly evaluated instructions, M are the
missed instructions and I is the inserted instructions.
To justify this metric, consider a side-channel attack extracting
the following text from the secret below:
"Sidea-Chonnels ara interestin "
"Side-Channels are interesting"
A naive approach to compare the output character one to one,
would result in a low recall metric of 17%, even though most
of the data was perfectly reproduced. However, due to the
noisy nature of side-channel attacks, an early insertion in the
word "Side" caused the entire rest of the output to be shifted.
Using our metric instead, two errors are present, one missed
character, and one inserted character. This results in a much
more fair recall metric of 87%.
Finally, we group up instructions that are functionally identical

with different byte sizes. i32.add and i64.add are considered
the same instruction in our evaluation where only the byte-size
of the opcode differs. Extracting either of these will result in
a correct guess in our evaluations. This was done in [10], and
as such for comparison sake, we do the same.
A. Experimental Setup
We evaluated our attack on a machine featuring an AMD
EPYC 8124P processor, running the latest version of AMD
SEV-SNP. The machine was running Ubuntu 22.04 with the
victim guest VM running the same operating system. In the
machine we ran the SEV-Step kernel with some minor modifications. We found that calling a Table Lookaside Buffer (TLB)
flush was not possible once a VM was halted from singlestepping. When SEV-Step modifies the NPTs to introduce
page-faults, a TLB flush is called at the end. This caused the
machine to freeze when trying to modify the NPTs. As such,
we added a tweak which removes the TLB flush if singlestepping was enabled.
B. Results
We evaluated our attack on seven Wasm modules performing three different workloads: a chess engine, AES128 encryption/decryption from tinyAES, and a simple handwritten prime-number calculator from a wat file. The chess
engine was compiled with optimization levels O0, O2, and
O3 from an open source engine written in C. For O0 and O2
the search depth was restricted to one, while the O3 build
evaluated a higher search depth of three. The AES module
was compiled with O0, O1, and O2 levels. All modules were
executed inside the iwasm interpreter under SEV-SNP, and
instruction traces were reconstructed using the extraction and
matching procedure described previously.
Table I summarizes the results. The consistency of our
results across different workloads shows that our extraction
method works well disregarding of code size, control-flow
structure and compile optimizations. Across all binaries, the

Module

Extracted Ins

Errors

Misses

Insertions

Recall

Script Runtime [s]

AES O0
AES O1
AES O2
primes.wat
Chess O0
Chess O2
Chess O3

1,320,561
69,444
44,351
213,900
8,568,798
1,905,184
126,516,521

306,935
20,389
14,269
44,032
2,767,703
543,264
32,598,993

328
7
78
2,870
21,143
1,018
92,605

139
0
1
1
3,988
690
52,091

76.722%
70.630%
67.649%
78.072%
67.407%
71.395%
74.119%

678.55
34.86
22.08
98.97
6136.69
1278.79
143297.74

TABLE I
R ESULTS OF THE ATTACK ON 7 DIFFERENT WASM MODULES COMPILED FROM DIFFERENT TARGETS .

attack achieves a correctness between 67% and 78%, substantially outperforming prior work such as Puddu et al. [10],
who reported 28% recovery inside from the same iwasm
interpreter under SGX. That attack also relied on last branch
records, from which they could infer if the instruction would
be a control flow instruction. Our main advantage is the use of
the address space, from which we extract more features such
as stack pages and the optable page. Their attack relies
on using regex expressions to match the traces, while our
matching method is more robust, using a scoring metric for the
different fingerprints to extract the best fit for a side-channel
data segment.
The hand-written primes.wat module yields the highest
correctness (78.0%). Its simple execution loop keeps the
entropy of the executed Wasm module low resulting in predictable outputs. We looked into the execution trace, and only
17 unique opcodes were used for the execution. The AES
modules on the contrary used 30-33 unique opcodes depending
on the compiler flags, while the chess engine used 47-48
unique opcodes.
The chess engine presents a more complex case, especially
in the O3 configuration, where deeper search leads to substantially longer traces (over 108 extracted regions). Despite
this increased complexity—and the corresponding growth in
error, miss, and insertion counts—the correctness remains
comparable to the simpler workloads. This indicates that the
attack remains robust even for long-running, branch-heavy
workloads.
Overall, the results demonstrate that our approach is capable
of recovering a substantial fraction of the executed instructions
across diverse Wasm workloads and significantly improves
upon prior instruction-recovery attacks in trusted execution
settings.

Fig. 5. Left: Latency density of three different instructions, each one
measured 1M times. Right: Collective latency density of 1M i32.add opcodes
executed.

There are several factors that contribute to the errors in our
measurements. Firstly, the latency measurements are noisy as
both the VMEXIT and APIC timer used for single-stepping
introduce sources of noise. To illustrate this, we collected a
trace of a tight loop executing the same instructions as the
opcode i32.add one million times. Figure 5 show how the
latencies of single instructions differ. While instructions that
perform read or writes to memory are substantially slower
than instruction performed on registers, there is still overlap
of the instructions. The latency curve for the sub instruction
shows how the low resolution of the APIC timer offsets the
latency measurements, causing spikes in the density curve.
Across the 8 instructions performed for i32.add (see in figure
2), this introduces a large spread of collective latency between
43500-44600 cycles. This noise affects the score calculated by
the Pearson Correlation Coefficient which introduces errors.
A second major contribution to noise is system interference.
Even in our tightly controlled loop of 10 million assembly
instructions collected for figure 5, we observed 1953 context
switches, adding 4,409,447 extra instructions to our loop. All
of these context switches add uncertainty to our traces, lowering the accuracy of our script. Finally, due to the inaccuracy
of the APIC timer, it is possible to miss instructions when
attempting to single-step. However, in our largest trace from
the O3 compilation of the chess engine, we only observed 10
multi steps across 2,810,963,156 measurements. As such, the
errors introduced due to multi-steps are negligible.
VIII. D ISCUSSION AND F UTURE W ORKS
Our findings show that the that the address space poses as
a large vulnerability when running an interpreter inside AMD
SEV-SNP. Even though our side-channel extraction was less
feature rich than the similar work done on SGX [10], we were
able to recover substantially more confidential code through
a single trace capture of a victim machine. This is in large
part due to the pre-processing step where more features are
extracted such as the page addresses of the stack and optable.
The pre-processing allows us to also use strong numerical
methods to match our opcode fingerprints such as the Pearson
correlation. This makes our matching method robust to noise
in the latency measurement, unlike regex matching method
used in the previous work on SGX. Actually, we found in
our experiments that using correlation metrics alone on the
latencies were enough to achieve recall values around 60%.
This would make it seem that the latency side channel is alone

responsible for our results. But running the matching algorithm
without using the Pearson correlation metrics, we found that
the recall metric only reduced by 8-15%. This indicates that
memory-access patterns alone, without timing information or
single-stepping, already leak enough structure to reconstruct a
significant portion of the executed opcodes.
A key practical limitation of single-stepping in SEV is its
extreme overhead. From some quick measurements, we found
that single-stepping approximately seven million instructions
slowed execution from 22.2 ms natively to 38.666 seconds, a
17 405x slowdown. This makes the attack very detectable if
any external monitoring of the system is present. However, as
address space revealed by page faults is sufficient to recover a
substantial amount of the executed opcodes, undetectable offchip attacks [23] may be feasible.
While this work utilized address space to extract more features
of the side-channel data, there’s still much room for improvements. The memory layout the interpreter remains unused in
our matching pipeline. Once the VM has loaded the interpreter
into main memory, the layout remains the same throughout
the lifetime of the process. Our collected fingerprints reveal
that frequently used instructions such as i32.add and f32.add
consistently reside on different pages across all tested configurations. Even a simple “execution-page” constraint could
therefore significantly limit the space of possible opcodes for
a segment of measurement data. Similarly, we did not deploy
cache-based techniques. PRIME+PROBE attacks have been
performed in SEV-SNP [25] which would greatly improve the
resolution of the address space down to the cache line. With
high enough resolution, handler functions would be separated
across different cache line. This would enable distinguishing
individual handler functions and inferring control flow at a
much finer resolution. Combined with frequency analysis, akin
to classical attacks on the Vigenère cipher, an attacker could
recover the opcodes with great accuracy.
Prior work has shown that even high-level semantic content,
such as images, can be reconstructed from page faults alone
[22]. Our attack improves the extraction of the confidential
code deployed. This risk will only grow as new domains
increasingly adopt Wasm. Recent work highlights the trend of
deploying LLM inference workloads inside Wasm runtimes
to enable secure, sandboxed, low-latency execution on edge
devices [35]. Model inversion is a recent new threat in AI
development and recent works has shown that model inversion
attacks are more effective if the model structure is known prior
to the attack [36]. The lack of code confidentiality would
make it possible to infer this geometry which would make
a subsequent attack stronger. Furthermore, the blockchain
ecosystem such as Ethereum 2.0 continues shifting toward
Wasm execution environments for smart contracts, where code
confidentiality may directly affect financial integrity. Together,
these trends motivate stronger protections for interpreter-based
TEEs before such deployment becomes widespread.

A. Mitigations
Mitigating this class of attacks requires breaking structural
regularities in interpreter behavior. One potential approach is
to introduce multiple semantically equivalent handlers per opcode and randomize their selection, increasing the entropy of
the observation surface. However, this increases maintenance
complexity and may introduce new side-channel differences if
not carefully balanced. More robust architectural protections
exist, such as AEX-Notify [37] and TLBlur [38], which
hide page accesses and degrade instruction-level stepping.
Unfortunately, these mechanisms currently target Intel SGX
and rely on ISA extensions unavailable on AMD processors.
Obfuscation has traditionally been an approach to protect
commercial intellectual property [39], and would be a potential means of protection. Adding randomness to the compile
time of the WAMR interpreter would render our matching
methodology futile. This could be done by inserting random
nop operations, or shuffling around the code layout of the
handlers.
Another direction is to abandon interpreter-style runtimes
in favor of compilation to native code, thereby eliminating
highly distinguishable handler dispatch patterns. While this
effectively removes opcode-level leakage, it sacrifices several
benefits of the Wasm ecosystem, including portability, fast
startup, and robust sandboxing. Balancing security and practicality therefore remains an open design challenge for future
confidential-computing platforms.
IX. C ONCLUSION
We have in this study shown the vulnerability of running
an open source software such as an interpreter in regards to
the exposed address space to a malicious hypervisor. Our preprocessing techniques, possible due to the exposed knowledge
of the open source, result in significant features of the underlying runtime being exposed. This made it possible for us to
extract a significant amount of executed code in a confidential
setting, achieving recall values of 74.3% across 128 million
exported bytecode instructions. While similar work has been
done on intel SGX, none has been conducted in a VM based
TEE such as AMD SEV, and none to the same level of
reconstruction as ours.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We would like to thank Luca Wilke for his quick responses
and help regarding usage of the SEV-Step framework. He has
on multiple occasions raised helpful insights on difficulties
encountered when working on this study. Without his help,
the work would have been much delayed.
This work was partially supported by the Wallenberg AI,
Autonomous Systems and Software Program (WASP) funded
by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
This article has received funding from the Smart Networks
and Services Joint Undertaking (SNS JU) under the European
Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation program

under Grant Agreement No 101139067. Views and opinions
expressed are, however, those of the author(s) only and do
not necessarily reflect those of the European Union. Neither
the European Union nor the granting authority can be held
responsible for them.

[15]

[16]

R EFERENCES
[1]

[2]

[3]

[4]
[5]
[6]

[7]
[8]

[9]

[10]

[11]

[12]

[13]
[14]

H. Pennanen, T. Hänninen, O. Tervo, A. Tölli, and M.
Latva-Aho, “6g: The intelligent network of everything,”
IEEE Access, vol. 13, pp. 1319–1421, 2025. DOI: 10.
1109/ACCESS.2024.3521579
K. Velasquez, D. Perez Abreu, M. Curado, and E.
Monteiro, “Resource orchestration in 5g and beyond:
Challenges and opportunities,” Computer Communications, vol. 192, pp. 311–315, 2022, ISSN: 0140-3664.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2022.06.019
[Online]. Available: https : / / www. sciencedirect . com /
science/article/pii/S0140366422002213
B. Spies and M. Mock, “An evaluation of webassembly
in non-web environments,” in 2021 XLVII Latin American Computing Conference (CLEI), 2021, pp. 1–10.
DOI: 10.1109/CLEI53233.2021.9640153
D. Kaplan, J. Powell, and T. Woller, “Amd memory
encryption,” White paper, vol. 13, p. 12, 2016.
D. Kaplan, “Protecting vm register state with sev-es,”
White paper, vol. 46, p. 158, 2017.
A. Sev-Snp, “Strengthening vm isolation with integrity
protection and more,” White Paper, January, vol. 53,
no. 2020, pp. 1450–1465, 2020.
V. Costan and S. Devadas, “Intel sgx explained,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2016.
P.-C. Cheng et al., “Intel tdx demystified: A top-down
approach,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 56, no. 9,
pp. 1–33, 2024.
S. Pinto and N. Santos, “Demystifying arm trustzone:
A comprehensive survey,” ACM computing surveys
(CSUR), vol. 51, no. 6, pp. 1–36, 2019.
I. Puddu, M. Schneider, D. Lain, S. Boschetto, and S.
Čapkun, “On (the lack of) code confidentiality in trusted
execution environments,” in 2024 IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy (SP), IEEE, 2024, pp. 4125–4142.
T. Lazard, J. Götzfried, T. Müller, G. Santinelli, and V.
Lefebvre, “Teeshift: Protecting code confidentiality by
selectively shifting functions into tees,” in Proceedings
of the 3rd Workshop on System Software for Trusted
Execution, 2018, pp. 14–19.
F. Hetzelt and R. Buhren, “Security analysis of encrypted virtual machines,” ACM SIGPLAN Notices,
vol. 52, no. 7, pp. 129–142, 2017.
Z.-H. Du et al., “Secure encrypted virtualization is
unsecure,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05090, 2017.
M. Li, Y. Zhang, Z. Lin, and Y. Solihin, “Exploiting unprotected {i/o} operations in {amd’s} secure encrypted
virtualization,” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 19), 2019, pp. 1257–1272.

[17]

[18]

[19]

[20]

[21]

[22]

[23]

[24]

[25]

[26]

[27]

M. Morbitzer, M. Huber, J. Horsch, and S. Wessel,
“Severed: Subverting amd’s virtual machine encryption,” in Proceedings of the 11th European Workshop
on Systems Security, 2018, pp. 1–6.
M. Morbitzer, M. Huber, and J. Horsch, “Extracting secrets from encrypted virtual machines,” in Proceedings
of the Ninth ACM Conference on Data and Application
Security and Privacy, 2019, pp. 221–230.
L. Wilke, J. Wichelmann, M. Morbitzer, and T. Eisenbarth, “Sevurity: No security without integrity : Breaking integrity-free memory encryption with minimal assumptions,” in 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (SP), 2020, pp. 1483–1496. DOI: 10 . 1109 /
SP40000.2020.00080
M. Morbitzer, S. Proskurin, M. Radev, M. Dorfhuber,
and E. Q. Salas, “Severity: Code injection attacks
against encrypted virtual machines,” in 2021 IEEE
Security and Privacy Workshops (SPW), IEEE, 2021,
pp. 444–455.
M. Li, Y. Zhang, H. Wang, K. Li, and Y. Cheng,
“{Cipherleaks}: Breaking constant-time cryptography
on {amd}{sev} via the ciphertext side channel,” in 30th
USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21),
2021, pp. 717–732.
M. Li, L. Wilke, J. Wichelmann, T. Eisenbarth, R.
Teodorescu, and Y. Zhang, “A systematic look at ciphertext side channels on amd sev-snp,” in 2022 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), IEEE, 2022,
pp. 337–351.
S. Gast, H. Weissteiner, R. L. Schröder, and D. Gruss,
“Counterseveillance: Performance-counter attacks on
amd sev-snp,” in Network and Distributed System Security Symposium 2025: NDSS 2025, 2025.
Y. Xu, W. Cui, and M. Peinado, “Controlled-channel
attacks: Deterministic side channels for untrusted operating systems,” in 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, IEEE, 2015, pp. 640–656.
D. Lee, D. Jung, I. T. Fang, C.-C. Tsai, and R. A. Popa,
“An {off-chip} attack on hardware enclaves via the
memory bus,” in 29th USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 20), 2020.
J. Van Bulck, F. Piessens, and R. Strackx, “Sgx-step: A
practical attack framework for precise enclave execution
control,” in Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on System
Software for Trusted Execution, 2017, pp. 1–6.
L. Wilke, J. Wichelmann, A. Rabich, and T. Eisenbarth,
“Sev-step: A single-stepping framework for amd-sev,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.14757, 2023.
L. Wilke, F. Sieck, and T. Eisenbarth, “Tdxdown:
Single-stepping and instruction counting attacks against
intel tdx,” in Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
2024, pp. 79–93.
J. Werner, J. Mason, M. Antonakakis, M. Polychronakis, and F. Monrose, “The severest of them all:
Inference attacks against secure virtual enclaves,” in

[28]

[29]

[30]

[31]

[32]

[33]

[34]

[35]

[36]

[37]

[38]

[39]

Proceedings of the 2019 ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security, 2019, pp. 73–85.
A. Silberschatz, P. B. Galvin, and G. Gagne, Silberschatz’s operating system concepts, global edition, en,
10th ed. Nashville, TN: John Wiley & Sons, Jul. 2019,
ch. 18, pp. 753–783.
J. A. Halderman et al., “Lest we remember: Cold-boot
attacks on encryption keys,” Communications of the
ACM, vol. 52, no. 5, pp. 91–98, 2009.
A. Haas et al., “Bringing the web up to speed with
webassembly,” in Proceedings of the 38th ACM SIGPLAN conference on programming language design and
implementation, 2017, pp. 185–200.
D. R. Dipta, T. Tiemann, B. Gulmezoglu, E. Marin, and
T. Eisenbarth, “Dynamic frequency-based fingerprinting
attacks against modern sandbox environments,” in 2024
IEEE 9th European Symposium on Security and Privacy
(EuroS&P), IEEE, 2024, pp. 327–344.
J. Van Bulck, F. Piessens, and R. Strackx, “Nemesis:
Studying microarchitectural timing leaks in rudimentary
cpu interrupt logic,” in Proceedings of the 2018 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, 2018, pp. 178–195.
I. Puddu, M. Schneider, M. Haller, and S. Čapkun,
“Frontal attack: Leaking {control-flow} in {sgx} via the
{cpu} frontend,” in 30th USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 21), 2021, pp. 663–680.
A. Abel and J. Reineke, “Uops.info: Characterizing
latency, throughput, and port usage of instructions on
intel microarchitectures,” in ASPLOS, ser. ASPLOS ’19,
Providence, RI, USA: ACM, 2019, pp. 673–686, ISBN:
978-1-4503-6240-5. DOI: 10 . 1145 / 3297858 . 3304062
[Online]. Available: http : / / doi . acm . org / 10 . 1145 /
3297858.3304062
Y. Zhang, M. Liu, H. Wang, Y. Ma, G. Huang, and
X. Liu, “Research on webassembly runtimes: A survey,” ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and
Methodology, vol. 34, no. 8, pp. 1–47, 2025.
Y. Xiang, Y. Xu, Y. Li, W. Ma, Q. Xuan, and Y.
Liu, “Side-channel gray-box attack for dnns,” IEEE
Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs,
vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 501–505, 2020.
S. Constable et al., “{Aex-notify}: Thwarting precise
{single-stepping} attacks through interrupt awareness
for intel {sgx} enclaves,” in 32nd USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 23), 2023, pp. 4051–
4068.
D. Vanoverloop, A. Sanchez, F. Toffalini, F. Piessens,
M. Payer, and J. Van Bulck, “Tlblur: Compiler-assisted
automated hardening against controlled channels on
off-the-shelf intel sgx platforms,” in USENIX Security,
vol. 25, 2025.
S. Schrittwieser, S. Katzenbeisser, J. Kinder, G. Merzdovnik, and E. Weippl, “Protecting software through
obfuscation: Can it keep pace with progress in code

analysis?” Acm computing surveys (csur), vol. 49, no. 1,
pp. 1–37, 2016.

