Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of
Distrustful Components
Amir Al Sadi

Sina Abdollahi

Adrien Ghosn

Imperial College London

Imperial College London

Microsoft Research

Hamed Haddadi

Marios Kogias

Imperial College London

Imperial College London

arXiv:2603.03403v2 [cs.CR] 7 Mar 2026

Abstract
Confidential computing protects data in use within Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs), but current TEEs provide little support for secure communication between components. As a result,
pipelines of independently developed and deployed TEEs must trust
one another to avoid the leakage of sensitive information they exchange – a fragile assumption that is unrealistic for modern cloud
workloads.
We present Mica, a confidential computing architecture that
decouples confidentiality from trust. Mica provides tenants with
explicit mechanisms to define, restrict, and attest all communication
paths between components, ensuring that sensitive data cannot leak
through shared resources or interactions. We implement Mica on
Arm CCA using existing primitives, requiring only modest changes
to the trusted computing base. Our extension adds a policy language
to control and attest communication paths among Realms and with
the untrusted world via shared protected and unprotected memory
and control transfers.
Our evaluation shows that Mica supports realistic cloud pipelines
with only a small increase to the trusted computing base while providing strong, attestable confidentiality guarantees.

Keywords
Confidential computing, Trusted execution environments, Attestation, Arm CCA

1

Introduction

Confidential computing protects data while in use, complementing
protections for data in transit and at rest. It is rapidly gaining adoption: hardware vendors introduce their own trusted-execution technologies [7, 21, 32], cloud providers release confidential-computing
services that promise protected execution environments [1, 2, 6],
and a growing body of academic work explores how to build systems
that leverage these emerging hardware security features [4, 47, 48].
Despite its popularity, confidential computing is only a partial
solution to the security needs of modern cloud workloads. Trusted
Execution Environments (TEEs) provide an attested execution context with exclusive access to protected resources, most notably protected memory, enforced through hardware access control [21, 32]
or memory encryption and integrity protection [7]. These mechanisms prevent higher-privilege software from reading or modifying
protected state. However, preventing external tampering is a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving confidentiality.
TEEs adopt a myopic view of confidentiality: they attest and
protect exclusive resources, while leaving the shared interfaces
they rely on largely unmeasured and weakly constrained. These

channels e.g., shared memory or interfaces with untrusted software,
define all sensitive data ingress and egress to the TEE. Yet, they lie
outside the TEE’s trust boundary. As a result, confidentiality reduces
to the functional correctness of all TEE-resident code that mediates
them – an unrealistic burden for real-world cloud workloads.
This sweeping simplification – pushing confidentiality onto the
correctness of TEE-resident code – produces a trust model that
is easy to describe on paper but fundamentally misaligned with
modern cloud computation. Cloud workloads are not monolithic
programs confined to a single TEE; they are pipelines of independently developed, deployed, and managed components that interact
with one another and operate under different trust assumptions.
Sensitive data flows between these components via shared buffers,
RPC interfaces, and intermediate services. Making confidentiality
depend on the verified correctness of every stage therefore imposes
unrealistic dependencies. It effectively requires tenants to audit
large third-party stacks, including complex operating systems and
application code that may be proprietary (closed-source) to guarantee mutual trust. In practice, such components neither can nor
wish to trust one another.
Cloud tenants need the ability to decouple confidentiality from
trust. Sensitive data should be able to flow across a pipeline without requiring tenants to trust or inspect every component; each
stage must be confined by mechanisms that prevent it from leaking
the information it handles. To achieve this, all potential leakage
paths – shared memory regions, communication buffers, IPC mechanisms, and other interaction points – must be explicitly attested
and strongly constrained. Each channel should either (1) be eliminated entirely or (2) connect only to components whose attestation
evidence and isolation guarantees ensure they cannot compromise
the confidentiality of the data they receive.
Prior work [4, 20, 47, 48] attempts to control all communication
paths from within the TEE to preserve confidentiality. Systems such
as Ryoan [20] and paravisor-based [4, 47, 48] designs that leverage
intra-TEE privilege layers (e.g., VMPLs in AMD SEV-SNP [7]) wrap
the application inside a trusted software layer. This layer mediates
all interactions with the rest of the system, prevents less-trusted
code from accessing untrusted memory, and attempts to contain
any unintended channels. While feasible, this approach is cumbersome: it restricts what code can run inside the TEE, places a heavy
burden on the functional correctness of the mediator, and requires
all parties in the pipeline to standardize on the same trusted software stack. Most importantly, confidentiality is enforced through
implicit fixed policies of the attested trusted software, rather than
through explicit, by-construction guarantees that can be controlled,
measured, and attested for each communication path.

Al Sadi et al.

We propose an alternative approach, that decouples policies
and mechanisms by providing tenants with explicit mechanisms
to manage and attest communication paths. Unauthorized paths
are prevented from existing, while permitted paths are measured,
attested, and constrained according to tenant-defined policies.
We realize this approach in Mica, a confidential computing architecture extension that enables control and attestation of shared
communication paths both between TEEs and with the untrusted
platform. Mica supports simple tenant-supplied policies to explicitly enable, restrict, and attest such communication across an entire
processing pipeline. This gives tenants precise control over how
data flows across mutually untrusted components, without requiring a common trusted software stack inside each TEE.
At a conceptual level, Mica is built around three key shifts: (1)
From implicit to explicit sharing: communication endpoints and
paths are explicitly identified, measured, and attested, rather than
inferred from the behavior of trusted software. (2) From fixed policies
to fixed mechanism with configurable policies: Mica separates tenantdefined sharing policies from the trusted mechanisms that enforce
and attest them. (3) From in-TEE enforcement to structural guarantees:
confidentiality no longer depends on trusted software mediating all
interactions inside the TEE, but instead follows from the attestable
structure of memory access and inter-component communication.
Under these principles, confidentiality in Mica follows from
two necessary and sufficient conditions: (1) exclusive memory is
inaccessible to external entities – a property already provided by
existing TEEs – and (2) all communication paths between components are explicitly defined, restricted, and attested. We implement
Mica on Arm CCA by extending the existing Realm Management
Monitor (RMM) with a small policy language to control and attest shared communication channels with other Realms and the
untrusted hypervisor. This design incurs only a modest increase
to the trusted computing base and is implemented entirely using
existing Arm CCA primitives, without any hardware changes. Mica
is a modern take on Lampson’s classic Confinement Problem [26],
illustrating how hardware–software co-design is required to prevent leaks and achieve true confidentiality. While our prototype
targets Arm CCA, the same principles – measuring and restricting
not only trusted resources but also untrusted ones – can be adapted
to other platforms such as Intel TDX [21]. Minor modifications
to the virtualization stack (i.e., QEMU and KVM) integrate Mica
seamlessly with existing guest software stacks.
In our evaluation, we show that Mica supports a wide range of
realistic cloud processing pipelines without imposing unrealistic
trust dependencies between components. Mica introduces minimal
additional overhead during TEE boot and attestation.
This paper makes the following contributions:

• The design of Mica, a novel extension to confidential computing architecture which allows to build confidential cloud
pipelines out of untrusted components;
• The design of a policy language that allows TEEs to explicitly define resource sharing policies;
• An implementation of Mica on top of Arm’s CCA.

2

Background & Motivation

This section reviews how existing TEEs interact with each other and
with external components, and the limitations these interactions
impose on confidentiality. We show why protecting sensitive data in
pipelines of mutually untrusted components remains challenging,
even when adopting prior work’s solutions. Finally, we provide
background on Arm CCA [32], the hardware platform that underlies
our implementation of Mica.

2.1

TEE interfaces and communication

TEEs protect memory and computation within a confined execution context, but communication with the outside world remains
exposed. All data flowing into or out of a TEE passes through untrusted channels, creating potential leakage paths that the TEE’s
core guarantees do not address.
All TEEs adopt a binary memory model: memory is either protected (accessible only by the TEE) or unprotected (managed by
the hypervisor or host, and potentially shared with other TEEs).
Any data placed in untrusted memory is exposed to the host, which
controls both its allocation and contents.
Channels to the host. Interactions with the host are required for
I/O, interrupts, and emulation of system interfaces (e.g., ACPI tables)
to maintain compatibility with existing software. For example, in
a confidential virtual machine (CVM), the guest network driver
writes packets to an unprotected page shared with the hypervisor,
which forwards them to the physical NIC. Such channels are fully
visible to the host, requiring TEEs to encrypt sensitive data and
adopt defensive measures for all interactions.
Channels to other TEEs. When multiple TEEs on the same host
need to exchange sensitive data, communication typically also
passes through unprotected memory controlled by the host. Both
endpoints must mutually authenticate and protect the data with
encryption, integrity checks, and replay attack mitigations. Moreover, each TEE must trust its counterpart not to leak data via its
channels to the host.
Generally, communication channels in the context of confidential
computing introduce performance and security challenges.
Performance. Both host-mediated and cross-TEE communication
channels incur substantial overhead due to data copying between
protected and unprotected memory, as well as encryption and integrity protection. Prior work [30, 36] shows that these operations
can consume up to 50% of CPU cycles.
While several efforts aim to reduce this overhead, their scope
remains limited. For example, confidential device support [38] –
including GPUs [44] – enables mutual attestation between CPU
TEEs and devices, with encryption handled directly in hardware
over the PCIe bus. Similarly, systems such as Elasticlave [46] and
Plug-In Enclaves [31] provide protected shared memory between
TEEs that is inaccessible to the host. However, these approaches
primarily optimize communication costs: they neither restrict interactions with the host nor eliminate the need for endpoints to
trust one another to avoid information leakage.
Security. Both host-mediated and cross-TEE channels introduce
significant security risks. Host-mediated interfaces, such as virtIO or ACPI, were not designed for confidential computing and

Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of Distrustful Components

System
Multi CVMs
Multi CVMs +
Sandbox
Single CVM +
Sandbox
Single CVM +
Intra-CVM Isolation
Mica

Communication
Cost
High

TEE+ N × (OS+App)

Trust
Dependencies
All to all

N × (full CVM to host interface)

High

TEE+ N × (OS+Sandbox)

All to all

N × (full CVM to host interface)

Low

TEE+OS+Sandbox

Low

TEE+Intravisor

Low

TEE

TCB

Host Attack Surface

All to
OS+Sandbox Owner
All to
Intravisor Owner

full CVM to host interface
Intravisor to host interface

Configurable via policies

Up to N independently constrained
CVM to host interfaces

Table 1: Comparison of existing solutions and Mica, highlighting communication cost, trusted computing base (TCB), trust
dependencies required to ensure data confidentiality, and interfaces to the untrusted host.
are vulnerable to a wide range of attacks [29, 42]. Securing these
interfaces requires TEE-resident code to correctly mediate interactions with the host, defend against Iago-style attacks, and prevent
confused-deputy leaks [18].
In this model, confidentiality ultimately depends on the functional correctness of tenant code across a large, low-level interface
– an extremely challenging requirement in practice. Meeting this requirement often necessitates deep modifications to software stacks,
and even then confidentiality remains implicit: any bug or unintended behavior can result in data leakage. In application pipelines
composed of multiple independently managed components, these
challenges compound, as components may run different operating
systems or configurations, rendering strong end-to-end confidentiality guarantees effectively unattainable.
These limitations motivate Mica, which provides explicit mechanisms to define, restrict, and attest communication paths across an
entire application pipeline. By giving tenants control over both hostmediated and cross-TEE channels, Mica enforces confidentiality
by construction, rather than relying on the functional correctness
of individual components running in TEEs or mediating software.

2.2

App

App

OS

OS

App

App

SBox

SBox

OS

OS
Host
(b)

Host
(a)
App

App
SBox

App

App

OS

OS

OS

Paravisor

Host
(c)

Host
(d)

Figure 1: Prior designs for confidential pipelines. Red indicate untrusted components (boxes or communication arrows), green indicates trusted components (secure communication or TCB). The dotted lines indicate the exposed interface to the untrusted host.

Approaches to confidential pipelines

We illustrate the confidentiality challenges that Mica addresses
by examining a multi-component confidential-cloud deployment.
Consider an agentic application where a user interacts with an LLM
via an agent running on the same machine. The agent and LLM are
proprietary, developed by different organizations, and user prompts
are sensitive. Trust relationships are asymmetric: the user trusts
the agent provider but not the model provider; the agent and model
providers do not trust each other; and none of the parties trust the
cloud infrastructure.
To understand the limitations of current TEEs in multi-party
settings, we examine a series of increasingly sophisticated deployment strategies, highlighting the confidentiality, performance, and
trust challenges each addresses. Figure 1 depicts those alternative
deployments, while Table 1 compares them across the axis of crosscomponent communication overhead, TCB size, trust relationships,
and untrusted interfaces to the host.
Naive multi-CVM deployment – Figure 1 (a). One straightforward approach is to run the agent and LLM in separate confidential
VMs (CVMs) on the same host, communicating over the local virtual
network. This ensures isolation from the cloud provider and from

each other, but confidentiality depends on trusting both CVMs’ entire software stacks—including the OS and user-space programs—to
correctly handle sensitive data. All communication passes through
hypervisor-visible channels, requiring software encryption and
decryption, and each component must trust the other to not leak
data via the host. This approach highlights the full set of problems:
large TCB, cross-tenant trust requirements, and costly overhead
of cross-TEE communications due to encryption and protection
against the hypervisor’s access to the channel.
CVMs with intra-VM sandboxes – Figure 1 (b). A first improvement is to reduce the TCB by introducing sandboxes inside each
CVM to mediate information flow. Sandboxes may run in user-space
(e.g., NaCl [45], Ryoan [20]) or rely on OS-level mechanisms (e.g.,
gVisor [17]). This removes most application code from the TCB, but
the sandbox and OSes, commonly maintained by different companies, must still be trusted. Interactions with the host still go through
the large surface of the guest OS and cross-CVM communication
still requires encryption.

Al Sadi et al.

Single CVM with multiple sandboxes – Figure 1 (c). Next,
collocating all components within a single CVM and isolating them
using software sandboxes further reduces the TCB: only the OS
and the sandbox mechanism (e.g., containers or gVisor) must be
trusted. Communication occurs entirely within the CVM, avoiding
hypervisor-visible channels and the associated encryption overhead.
However, tenants must coordinate to attest both the CVM and
the sandbox before provisioning secrets, which limits independent
updates. Moreover, the OS remains part of the TCB to mediate
interactions with the host.
Monitor/Paravisor for intra-CVM isolation – Figure 1 (d).
Hardware mechanisms, such as AMD VMPLs [7] or Intel Trust
Domains [21], provide isolated compartments within a single CVM.
A trusted monitor or paravisor running at the highest privilege
level enforces isolation by (1) shielding CVM content and mediating
interactions with the host, and (2) isolating components within the
CVM. Compartments can securely share memory under monitor
mediation, eliminating host-exposed channels and removing the
need to trust the OS or an application-level sandbox.
These mechanisms, however, have limitations. The number of
compartments is often fixed and small (e.g., 1 + 3 in TDX), the
monitor itself must be fully trusted, and secondary attestation for
individual components is required. Existing solutions enforce fixed
policies tied to specific trust models: Verismo [48] shields trusted
modules, Veil [4] implements nested enclaves, and OpenHCL [37]
provides shielding and paravirtualized services for unenlightened
CVM guests. As a result, confidentiality remains dependent on the
correctness of the deployed trusted code. Like the software-sandbox
approach, these mechanisms also require independent components
to reside in the same CVM, limiting tenant control and flexibility.
Across all prior approaches, achieving confidentiality comes at
the cost of one or more trade-offs: high communication overhead,
requiring all components to be trusted, or forcing components
to be managed together rather than independently. Mica breaks
this trade-off by giving tenants explicit, attestable control over all
communication paths in the pipeline. This enables components
to remain independently managed while still providing strong,
end-to-end confidentiality guarantees for the data they process.
Table 1 summarizes the above discussion for existing approaches
and reports Mica for comparison.

2.3

Background on Arm CCA

Arm Confidential Compute Architecture (Arm CCA) is a set of
Armv9-A architectural extensions that provide confidential virtual
machines (CVMs). CCA introduces two new execution worlds, the
Root world and Realm world, alongside the existing Normal world
and Secure world used by TrustZone [9]. worlds define isolation domains that coexist with the architectural privilege levels (EL0–EL2):
in all worlds, applications run at EL0, operating systems at EL1, and
hypervisors/firmware at EL2. The highest privilege level, EL3, hosts
the Monitor, which executes in the Root world. The Monitor is responsible for switching between worlds and managing world-level
state. Figure 2 shows the overall architecture of Arm CCA.
CCA enforces strict memory ownership at physical-page granularity (i.e., per granule) by associating each granule with a world
state that reflects which world owns it at a given time. Granules

NW VM
EL0

App

App

App

OS

OS

OS

Realm
VM
EL1

Secure
Stack

RSI
EL2

RMM

Hypervisor

EL3

RMI

Monitor

Figure 2: CCA Architecture.

tagged as Normal are accessible from all worlds, whereas granules
tagged as Secure or Realm are accessible only from their respective worlds and from the Root world. These tags are stored in the
Granule Protection Table (GPT), a hardware structure managed
exclusively by the Monitor at EL3. During address translation, the
hardware performs a Granule Protection Check (GPC) on the GPT
to ensure the access is permitted for the currently executing world.
The Realm world hosts CVMs, known as Realms, whose memory
and execution state are protected from the host OS and hypervisor in Normal world, and from software running in Secure world.
Realms run in EL1 and EL0, while a Realm Manager Monitor (RMM)
acts as a trusted firmware in Realm world’s EL2. The RMM controls
the life cycle of Realms. It handles memory management via the
Realm Translation Tables (RTTs), which map Intermediate Physical
Addresses (IPAs) to Physical Addresses (PAs) – effectively performing
guest-physical to host-physical address translation, and mediates
all interactions with the untrusted hypervisor in Normal world. The
RMM maintains per-Realm metadata in a dedicated datastructure
called the Realm Descriptor (RD).
Unlike CISC architectures such as AMD SEV-SNP, which rely on
a closed-source Platform Security Processor (PSP) and restrict interaction to a fixed set of domain-specific instructions, CCA follows the
RISC philosophy: it builds on a minimal set of micro-architectural
components and supports an extensible RMM design. The RMM
mediates all interactions between the Realm and Normal worlds
through two interfaces: the Realm Management Interface (RMI) and
the Realm Services Interface (RSI). The hypervisor communicates
with the RMM to manage Realms via RMI calls, while Realms request services from the Normal world through RSI calls.
The life cycle of a Realm always starts from a virtual machine
monitor (VMM), e.g., qemu [10], running in the Normal world. The
VMM allocates memory that initially belongs to the Normal world
and communicates with the hypervisor, e.g., KVM, indicating that
it wants to use this memory to create a new Realm. The hypervisor,
through a series of RMI calls, communicates with the RMM. The
ownership of the allocated physical memory granules is passed
to the Realm world and the RMM starts building the stage-2 page
tables for the Realm. Realm execution is driven entirely from the
Normal world: the Normal-world scheduler schedules the VMM,
which transitions into the Realm via an RMI. The Realm itself
makes no scheduling decisions and does not require dedicated

Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of Distrustful Components

cores. As a result, the VMM has full control over the execution of
the Realm and can further revoke its memory at any point in time.
When this happens, the RMM guarantees that the memory is first
zeroed before returning the ownership to the Normal world, thus
preserving confidentiality.
Arm CCA provides a built-in attestation mechanism to allow
a remote party to verify the state of the Realm and the platform
on which it runs before provisioning secrets or granting access.
Each attestation token includes a Realm Initial Measurement (RIM),
i.e., a cryptographic hash of the Realm’s initial code, data, and
configuration and serves as its stable identity, and a Realm Extensible
Measurements (REM). Realms can update the REM via a dedicated
RSI to record measurements of dynamic events during runtime.
Together, RIM and REM allow a verifier to reason about both how
the Realm was created and how it reached its current state.

3

Design

We present Mica, which generalizes confidential computing from
protecting a single trusted component to securing end-to-end application pipelines composed of mutually untrusted components.
In Mica, each component executes in its own isolated TEE instance
and interacts with others only through controlled and attested communication channels. Unlike prior TEE solutions, Mica does not
require trusting or ascertaining the functional correctness of any
component. Instead, confidentiality is enforced by construction
through these controlled and attested inter-TEE communication
channels, allowing security properties to extend across an entire
pipeline rather than being confined to a single TEE.
Mica achieves this with a software extension to TEE architectures with three primitives that support user-defined policies over:
(i) unprotected memory; (ii) shared protected memory between
TEEs; and (iii) known covert channels. Finally, a group attestation
scheme captures these policies across all communicating TEEs, allowing to reason about information sharing and leakage across an
entire pipeline or directed graph of interacting components.

3.1

Threat Model

Mica targets a multi-component application deployed in the cloud.
The application consists of multiple components from different
vendors, each of which may contain proprietary code or data. Component vendors do not trust one another nor the cloud provider.
The application processes sensitive data that must remain confidential throughout the processing pipeline. Client data must not be
disclosed to the cloud provider or exfiltrated by individual components. Although the client assumes that each component performs
its advertised functionality, it does not trust components to preserve confidentiality and treats them as adversarial with respect to
data leakage, including through collusion with the cloud provider.
The client and software vendors trust the correctness of the
underlying TEE hardware and firmware, which together form the
trusted computing base (TCB). The client does not, in general, trust
the functional correctness of components’ code, even when it executes inside a TEE. However, components directly controlled by
the client may be considered trusted and be included in the TCB.

Denial-of-service attacks are out of scope. Microarchitectural
side-channel attacks are orthogonal to this work and can be addressed using complementary defenses. In contrast, covert channels
between malicious components are explicitly in scope. Mica aims
to mitigate known covert channels on a best-effort basis and provides extensible mechanisms to incorporate defenses against covert
channels as they are discovered.

3.2

Design Overview

In Mica, each component executes in its own TEE, co-located on
the same physical host. Communication between components is
governed by explicit, system-enforced policies. These policies precisely define how components may share memory and constrain
how information flows across component boundaries.
A key design principle of Mica is to make memory sharing
– and hence communication between components – explicit and
attestable. In existing TEE architectures, sharing with untrusted
entities such as the hypervisor is implicit and unchecked, which
forces confidentiality to rely on trusting TEE code not to leak sensitive data. This coupling between confidentiality and component
behavior limits the protection guarantees that TEEs can provide in
multi-tenant settings. Mica breaks this assumption by requiring
tenants to explicitly specify, via policies, how a TEE may share
memory with other TEEs or with the host. By enforcing explicit
sharing, Mica decouples confidentiality guarantees from trust in
component behavior.
However, explicit sharing alone is insufficient. Although it restricts the behavior of an individual TEE, it does not control how
data may propagate once shared with other components. To address this limitation, Mica takes a second, inductive step: policies
do not only describe how a component may share memory, but
also constrain the communication behavior of the components it
connects to. Concretely, a component’s policy specifies properties
that peer components must satisfy for communication to be permitted. By enforcing these constraints at connection time, Mica allows
components to bound the transitive flow of data beyond their own
execution context.
Even with explicit memory sharing and transitive bounds on
information flow, components may still establish covert channels
to communicate. In particular, a component can repurpose existing signaling mechanisms — most notably interactions with the
untrusted host — to leak confidential information. For example, it
may encode data in the frequency of exceptions, in the timing of
transitions, or in the parameters passed during host interactions. To
address this, Mica’s policies cover such interactions explicitly. They
specify which signaling mechanisms a component is permitted to
use, and under what conditions, allowing Mica to mitigate known
covert channels.
Finally, Mica elevates attestation from individual TEEs to entire
application pipelines. By attesting a group of communicating TEEs
together with their declared policies, Mica allows external users to
verify that the entire deployment satisfies the desired end-to-end
confidentiality properties, rather than reasoning about individual
components in isolation.
To achieve the above goals, Mica extends existing TEE architectures and makes the following three assumptions about the

Al Sadi et al.

underlying TEE implementation. First, the TEE offers a way to extend its functionality without requiring hardware changes. Second,
the extensible firmware is able to interpose and filter the transitions
and interaction between TEEs and the untrusted host. Third, the
TEE implementation allows for confidential shared memory [3], i.e.,
shared memory between different TEEs that is not accessible by the
untrusted host. These assumptions are compatible with TEEs across
different hardware platforms, such as M-mode in RISC-V [46] and
the RMM in Arm CCA [32]. Thus, we describe the rest of the design
in an architecture-agnostic way and we specialise our implementation (§4) on Arm CCA.

1

{
" Peers " : {
" Self " : " P1 " ,
" P1 " : { " hash " : 0 xabcd , " is_gateway " : true , " strict ":
false } ,
" P2 " : { " hash " : 0 xefab , " is_gateway " : false , " strict "
: true } ,
},
" MemChannels " : {
" Mem1 " : {
" size " : 0 x 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 ,
" type " : " PROTECTED " ,
" mappings " : {
" P1 " : { " gpa " : 0 x 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 , " prot " : "W" },
" P2 " : { " gpa " : 0 x 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 , " prot " : "R" },
" ANY " : { " gpa " : 0 x 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 , " prot " : " RW " , "
count " : -1 } ,
}
},
},
" TransChannels " : {
" CF1 " : {
" owner " : " P2 " ,
" type " : " exception "
" range " : [ " 1 " , " 4 " ] ,
" policy " : " ALLOW "
},
" CF2 " : {
" owner " : " P1 " ,
" type " : " call "
" range " : [ " 0 " ] ,
" policy " : " SCRUB "
},
}

2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15

3.3

Mica Policies

16
17

While seemingly straightforward, designing the right support for
policies over communications poses two key challenges. First, policies must balance flexibility and precision: they need to provide
strong guarantees, such as preventing leakage of sensitive information, while allowing components to be managed and updated
independently. Second, enforcing restrictions on interactions with
untrusted code is inherently difficult. TEEs were not originally
designed for this purpose and often rely on the untrusted hypervisor during critical phases of their lifecycle, such as boot. We
address both challenges by defining semantics that make minimal
assumptions about communicating components and adopting a
semi-dynamic policy model: policies can be supplied at runtime,
after boot, at which point they begin to be enforced and can no
longer be changed.
Terminology. In Mica, a component’s policy configuration defines
its communication channels and the peers it connects to. Channels
span two types of media: memory and control-flow transitions.
Memory channels enable communication between TEEs or between
a TEE and the host via shared memory, while control-flow channels
occur only between a TEE and the host. A channel is protected if it
is accessible only to TEEs, and unprotected if the host can access it.
Channels are active when shared by two or more peers, and inactive
when accessible to only a single component.
For each peer, a component’s policy can specify authentication
requirements and impose constraints on the peer’s own channels.
These transitive constraints implement Mica’s inductive step, allowing a component to control not just its direct communications
but also how information may propagate through its peers.
Peers permitted to interact with untrusted code or access unprotected memory are called gateways. At run-time, the set of components connected by active channels – directly or transitively –
forms a group.
Component policy lifecycle. Any running TEE may supply a
policy to Mica to govern its communication. Until a policy is provided, the TEE executes without restrictions, allowing it, e.g., to
boot with the help of an untrusted hypervisor or to receive initial
confidential data from its vendor. A TEE supplies its policy configuration via a dedicated Mica call. At that point, the policy takes
effect immediately, is enforced by Mica, and cannot be modified.
If the supplied policy cannot be satisfied or conflicts with the policies of other peers in the group, Mica terminates the component.
Otherwise, the component joins the group, is allowed access to the

18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32

}

Figure 3: Example of policy file used by Mica defining two
peers with one shared memory region. P1 is the component
supplying the policy as indicated by Self.
protected channels, and its interactions with the host are limited to
its restricted control-flow and unprotected memory channels.
Policy configuration structure. Figure 3 provides an example of
policy configuration. A policy configuration contains two types of
entries: (1) peers, and (2) channels.
Peers include the component itself, indicated by the keyword
Self, as well as other components in the group from the supplier’s
perspective. For each peer, the policy specifies a local ID for referencing it elsewhere in the configuration, an optional hash of
the peer’s initial attestation report, and a set of expected properties. The properties consist of two booleans: is_gateway indicates
whether the peer may access unprotected memory, and strict to
indicate whether it may maintain channels not explicitly listed in
the current policy. The strict boolean is important for decoupling
peer management: it allows components that do not require strict
confidentiality to avoid tracking a peer’s channels by setting it to
false. For peers with 𝑠𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑡 = 𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑒, all their channels and peers
must be captured in this policy configuration. Channels, whether
based on memory or covering control-flow, appear as a list.
Memory channels. For a memory channel, the policy specifies the
following fields: size, type, and a set of memory mappings. The size
field specifies the size of the shared region; for confidential virtual
machines, this corresponds to the contiguous size of the mapping
in guest physical address space. The type is either protected or
unprotected and indicates if the physical memory backing the
channel must be confidential, i.e., not accessible by the host, or not.

Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of Distrustful Components

The mappings field is the core of a channel specification, defining
how peers are connected. It contains a list of entries, one for each
peer with access to the shared memory region, identified by either
the peer’s local ID or the keyword SELF. Each entry may optionally
specify the guest physical address (GPA) where the channel is
expected to be mapped, along with the maximum access rights
granted (read, write, execute). Although executable shared memory
is uncommon, supporting it adds no extra complexity and enables
use cases such as one peer supplying code to another without
requiring costly copies into private memory.
To provide flexibility, Mica also supports the special identifier
any, which represents components not explicitly listed as peers.
A channel mapping can use any to allow additional components,
not described in the policy, to access the channel. An any mapping
includes the same fields as above and an additional counter that
limits the number of components that can use this entry to connect to the channel, with negative values indicating no limit. This
mechanism allows components to act as proxies, granting arbitrary
peers access to specific services, for example, devices.
Control-flow channels. Control-flow channels specify policies
to restrict information carried when transitionning to the host and
mitigate their use as covert channels. A control-flow channel policy
has three fields: owner, type, range, and policy. The owner field
is the local ID for the peer to which the policy applies. The type
identifies the transition trigger and can take the values of call
indicating an explicit call from the TEE to the host, or exception
indicating an implicit transition to the host based on the TEE execution, e.g., a page fault. The range defines a non-empty set of
identifiers describing the specific transition type.
The policy field specifies how Mica handles such control-flow
events and can take three values: allow, scrub, or block. The allow
policy enables such transitions to the host along with the information transfers as described by the ISA. The scrub policy instructs
Mica to obfuscate the related information before transitioning to
the host. The obfuscation logic is specific to the transition and implemented in Mica. Conceptually, this policy filters and sanitizes
interrupt-related information before control is transferred to the
untrusted host. It can further be augmented to consider the rate at
which such events are trigger and introduce noise in a best-effort
attempt to mitigate covert channels based on timing. Finally, block
drops the event completely and is the default when no policy is
explicitly supplied for the event. To prevent a TEE’s policy from
hogging a core, Mica can selectively force a platform specific event
(e.g., a particular IPI on x86 or a secure timer on Arm) to be scrubbed
rather than blocked.
Default behaviour. Mica policies define explicit memory sharing
and control flow transitions. Mica enforces the invariant that any
memory available to the TEE and not described by the policy file is
protected (i.e., confidential) and only accessible by this TEE. Mica
further ensures that any protected memory used for a channel is
mapped only once in the TEE’s address space. This is necessary to
avoid attacks that would alias the same physical memory at another
guest physical address space with different access rights.

3.4

Policy validation & Enforcement

Mica extends TEE operations and is designed to be backward compatible with existing technologies. That is, Mica enables TEEs that
do not use its extensions to operate normally. To this end, our design requires a TEE to explicitly join a group by uploading its policy
configuration. At this point, Mica validates the policy, ensuring
it can be satisfied, before applying restrictions to the domain and
enabling channels. Failure to validate the supplied policies results
in Mica terminating the TEE.
Before policy upload. Prior to uploading a policy to Mica, a
TEE operates normally. It has unsupervised access to unprotected
memory as allowed by the untrusted host, does not share any protected memory with other TEEs on the system, and can request
platform-provided attestations. Note that for TEE technologies that
support dynamic memory management, i.e., adding protected memory at run-time via page-faults or collaborative protocols with the
host, we recommend pre-populating the TEE’s entire address space
before uploading the policy configuration as it might restrict the
control-flow transitions necessary to populate them. For memory
backing protected memory channels, Mica requires the host to
mark the corresponding regions explicitly as protected shared and
to pre-supply the backing physical pages. It however blocks the
TEE’s access to these regions until the policy upload. Internally,
Mica maintains a map of physical addresses marked as protected
shared and the TEEs in which they have been mapped.
Upload and validation. A policy upload triggers Mica’s validation of the policy. The TEE enters a locked-down state that prevents
any modification to its memory mappings by the host. Mica parses
the policy and inspects the TEE’s address space to validate whether
these can be satisfied. First, Mica goes through all the TEE’s unprotected memory and unmaps any access that is not explicitly
covered by the policies. Second, Mica ensures that there is a oneto-one correspondance between mappings marked by the host as
protected shared and the protected channels described in the policy.
It further ensures the size of these regions is correct and that the
same physical page is not used more than once. At this stage, Mica
is ready to validate it with regartds to other peers policies.
Mica validates policies by performing a graph traversal in which
nodes represent peers and edges represent memory channels defined by the policies. Starting from the peer that uploads its policy,
Mica initializes a work queue with all channels described in that
policy. For each channel dequeued, and for each of its mappings,
Mica resolves the peer’s local identifier to a globally unique TEE
identifier maintained by Mica. This resolution is performed either
by matching the peer’s supplied attestation hash, if present, or by
consulting the mapping between shared protected physical pages
and the TEEs that map them and already uploaded their policies. If
Mica cannot unambiguously resolve peer identifiers, policy validation fails and the initiating TEE is terminated.
Once a peer is successfully identified, Mica caches the localto-global mapping and checks that the policies on both sides are
mutually compatible. This includes validating peer properties as
well as channel attributes such as access rights and size. The channel’s mapping is then marked as visited, and all channels described
in the peer’s policy are added to the work queue. Already visited

Al Sadi et al.

channel mappings are skipped when encountered again, ensuring
that each is validated only once.
When the traversal completes successfully, meaning all reachable
channels have been validated, Mica enables the initiating TEE’s
access to the channels according to its policy. Note that active
channels are the ones for which the physical address to peer map
contains at least two peers with uploaded (and validated) policies.
Although this validation process may appear sensitive to ambiguities in policy specification, such ambiguities are easily avoided in
practice. A deployment can generate a single policy configuration
per group and distribute it to all peers with only the SELF identifier
specialized for each component.

3.5

Component
Added LoC
RMM (cca/v8) [34]
3646 (12%)
Host kernel [8]
445 (<1%)
Qemu VMM (cca/2025-06-12) [33] 219 (<1%)
Guest kernel [8]
1718 (<1%)
Table 2: Lines of code added to each component in Mica.

RMI_DATA_CREATE_UNKNOWN_SHARED
RMI_REALM_PD
RMI_SGT

Attestation

Mica extends standard TEE attestation by incorporating the component’s supplied policy and the current state of its channels. Crucially,
for backward compatibility, Mica leaves the default TEE attestation
unchanged, ensuring that components remain interoperable with
non-Mica services. This way vendors can independently attest that
their components run inside a TEE implemented by a platform
they trust. This can happen either before a component installs its
policy which removes the unprotected mappings, or anytime if the
component is a gateway.
Mica provides an extended attestation that produces a single
report covering an entire group. To construct this report, Mica
performs a graph traversal over active channels, visiting all TEEs
reachable from the initiating peer. For each peer in the group, the
attestation includes its standard platform attestation and its policy
configuration, with channels marked as active or inactive. These
artifacts are included in plaintext, alongside a cryptographic hash
of their contents that is signed by Mica. The exact signature format and verification procedure are platform- and implementationspecific and are implemented on top of the platform’s existing
mechanisms and roots-of-trust. Note that any peer within the group
obtains the same group attestation but that only gateways are capable of sending the attestation to a remote client.

RSI_UPLOAD_POLICY

RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_INIT_GROUP
RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_CON- Continue retrieving group attestation
TINUE_GROUP
Table 3: New APIs added in Mica.

This section focuses on the TF-RMM extensions, while §5 describes the supporting infrastructure in KVM and QEMU.

4.1

Implementation

We implement Mica on top of Arm Confidential Compute Architecture (CCA). Arm CCA provides an extensible substrate with the
primitives required by Mica, enabling a firmware-based implementation without hardware modifications.
Our implementation targets the QEMU CCA platform [33], as
CCA-capable silicon is not yet widely available. The QEMU stack
emulates Armv9 and CCA execution worlds, running reference
implementations of the CCA monitor (TF-A at EL3), the Realm
Management Monitor (TF-RMM [34] at secure EL2), and an untrusted host (Linux at normal-world EL2). Guest Realms execute at
secure EL1 and are instantiated by a QEMU-based VMM running
at EL0 in the normal world.
Mica is implemented through: (1) Extensions to TF-RMM to support policy specification and enforcement, (2) Small modifications
to the QEMU (v9.2.4 [33]) VMM to expose these mechanisms, and
(3) Limited patches to the CCA-enabled guest and host kernels [8]
to leverage Mica’s API. Table 2 provides a breakdown of the lines
of code added to each component to support Mica.

Overview

Mica integrates closely with the standard CCA control flow to
minimize disruption. In CCA, most management operations are
delegated to the untrusted host. Mica preserves this model, while
extending it with host-invoked RMI calls for resource management
and channel setup, and Realm-invoked RSI calls for policy upload
and attestation. Table 3 summarises the added RMIs and RSIs.
We present the implementation in the order of steps in Mica’s
Realm execution workflow: Realm creation and pre-population
(§4.2), Policy upload (§4.3), Runtime execution and attestation (§4.4).

4.2
4

RMIs
Mark protected memory channels PAs
as shared between realms
Mark page as PD
Mark page as SGT
RSIs
Upload binary policy to RMM for a
realm
Start group attestation

Creation and Pre-population

Mica introduces two minor extensions to the standard Realm creation flow: (1) delegate a granule to store Realm policy metadata
(PD), and (2) delegate and pre-mark protected granules that will
back communication channels. These changes ensure that a Realm
intending to use Mica reaches a well-defined state from which it
can upload a policy and subsequently participate in a group.
Policy metadata. Mica extends the RMM to maintain a policy
configuration for each Realm. To support this, the RMM requires
exclusive access to protected memory to store the policy metadata.
Mica reuses the existing RMI_GRANULE_DELEGATE, which allows
the untrusted host to delegate ownership of a granule to the Realm
world. During delegation, the RMM zeros the granule to ensure a
clean initial state. The host then invokes the new RMI_REALM_PD
to designate the delegated granule as policy metadata (PD) for a
specific Realm. Initially, the PD encodes an empty policy configuration. The RMM records the PD granule in the RD using a new
64-bit field, pd, which stores its PA. The PD is managed exclusively
by the RMM and is never mapped into the Realm’s stage-2 address
space.

Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of Distrustful Components

Allocating and pre-marking protected channel granules. Although confidential shared memory, i.e., memory that is shared
among different collocated TEEs but not the host, is a feature that
has been proposed for different TEE implementations [31, 46], including a tentative one on Arm CCA [3], we could not find any
available opensource implementation. Thus, we add support for
confidential shared memory to Arm CCA that is necessary to back
protected memory channels.
Mica extends the CCA protocol for protected memory to explicitly identify granules that may be shared across Realms, i.e.,
granules intended to back protected channels.
Such granules are provisioned on demand. On the first Realm’s
memory access fault caused by a missing stage-2 mapping, the RMM
exits to the host, which allocates backing physical memory and
delegates the corresponding granule to the Realm world via RMI_GRANULE_DELEGATE, before establising the stage-2 mapping and
re-entering the Realm. Mica then extends this flow with a new RMI
that allows the host to create the associated mappings of the shared
memory in a controlled manner. Concretely, the host invokes RMI_DATA_CREATE_UNKNOWN_SHARED to designate the granule as shared
and map it into the Realm. This call has the following effects: (1)
if this is the first time the granule is used for sharing, it marks the
granule as shared and initializes Mica ’s per-granule metadata; (2)
it records the Realm identifier in this metadata; (3) it installs the
IPA-to-PA mapping in the Realm’s second-stage translation tables
(RTTs). At this point, the RMM installs the RTT entry with no
access permissions, so any access to the IPA triggers a permission
fault. Mica enables the appropriate access rights only after the
Realm uploads its policies.
Mica maintains a table that includes all the shared granules, the
Shared Granule Table (SGT). For each granule, the SGT keeps the
Realm identifiers that maps the granule, along with the associated
access rights. The RMM uses this table for policy validation and
during the attestation to find the accessible peers via the active
channels. Following CCA’s typed-memory model, Mica introduces
a new RMI (RMI_SGT) that allows the host to designate a granule for
hosting the SGT. Multiple RMI_SGT are called to provide multiple
granules for the SGT.
For unprotected channels, i.e., shared with the host, the allocation
and mapping of memory follows the standard CCA protocol for
unprotected shared memory.

4.3

Supplying Realm Policies

After boot, a Realm needs to upload its policy configuration before
it can join a group and start interacting with peers.
Policy upload. A Realm uploads its policy using Mica’s RSI_UPLOAD_POLICY, specifying a protected IPA pointing to a binaryencoded policy configuration. Upon receiving this RSI, Mica copies
the binary blob into the PD.
Validation. The RMM validates the policy blob to ensure that all
memory accesses comply with the configuration. Unprotected memory regions not explicitly covered by the policy are unmapped. For
protected channels, the RMM performs the validation algorithm described in §3.4: it first checks that all shared granules are described
in the policy, and then performs a graph traversal over all channels
that would become active – that is, channels where a peer exists and

has supplied its policy. If any violation is detected, the operation
fails. In the current implementation, the Realm is terminated for
simplicity, though an alternative would be to reject the policy and
signal an error to the Realm.
If validation succeeds, the RMM commits the policy to the Realm’s
PD. Mica updates the corresponding REM with a digest of the validated policies. Since existing REM fields already support deploymentspecific extensions, Mica required minimal modifications to integrate policy measurement into the standard attestation flow.
At this point, Mica modifies the access rights to mappings that
correspond to protected channels and thus enables Realm access to
these memory regions. Furthermore, from this point onward, Mica
will consult the PD whenever a control-flow channel is trigger by
the Realm’s actions and decide whether to allow, scrub, or block this
transition to the host. Note that once a Realm’s policies have been
validated, Mica freezes it and does not require re-validation later on.
Moreover, Mica ensures that the policies supplied subsequentlty
by other peers do not contradict with the currently validated ones.

4.4

Attestation

To support group attestation, Mica introduces two new RSIs (RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_INIT_GROUP and RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_CONTINUE_GROUP). Those two RSIs mirror existing attestation semantics in
Arm CCA [32], but adjusted accordingly for group attestation. RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_INIT_GROUP initiates the mechanism described in
§3.5, while RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_CONTINUE_GROUP is used by a Realm
to consume a large output that corresponds to the plaintext and
signed hash of the entire group attestation report.

5

Infrastructure

Mica requires minor extensions to the software stack responsible
for creating and managing Realms. We modified the KVM/QEMU
VMM stack for the untrusted host and added a simple policy driver
to Realm guest Linux kernels. These changes are small, integrate
cleanly with the existing infrastructure, and preserve the standard
Arm CCA control flow while enabling attested channel support.
KVM Extensions. The Linux Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM)
[14] is the virtualization subsystem of the Linux kernel that enables
a Linux host to act as a hypervisor and run virtual machines. Recent
versions of KVM include support for CCA, allowing an untrusted
Linux host to create and manage Realms. In particular, KVM exposes
an API to mark a Realm’s memory as protected by associating the
KVM_MEMORY_ATTRIBUTE_PRIVATE flag with a userspace memory
slot assigned to the Realm. Conversely, memory slots without this
attribute are treated as unprotected and accessible to the host.
Mica extends this mechanism with a new memory attribute,
KVM_MEMORY_ATTRIBUTE_PRIVATE_SHARED, which identifies protected memory regions intended to back protected channels. KVM
treats these memory regions as shared between realms. It delegates
the corresponding granules to the Realm world with RMI_GRANULE_DELEGATE and makes them accessible to each realm participating realm with RMI_DATA_CREATE_UNKNOWN_SHARED.
Finally, we modify KVM to allocate a page, by default, for every
Realm to serve as the PD granule and one page for the granule that
will hold the SGT, and perform the corresponding RMIs to coordinate with the RMM. In the current implementation, a single page is

Al Sadi et al.

enough to host Realm policies but should the Realm require more
metadata, the RMM can signal the host to provide more granules
via error code as return values to RMIs.
Overall, the required KVM changes are modest and localized,
serving primarily to surface Mica’s semantics to the host while
leaving enforcement to the RMM.
Qemu VMM Extensions. The QEMU [10] is a widely used Virtual
Machine Manager (VMM) that works in conjunction with Linux
KVM to create, configure, and run virtual machines. QEMU provides
extensive device emulation and supports emerging hardware technologies, including recent extensions for Arm CCA [12], enabling
the execution of Realms on compatible Arm platforms.
QEMU exposes Inter-VM Shared Memory (ivshmem) [40] to
enable direct communication via unprotected shared memory between multiple VMs or between a VM and the host. Ivshmem is
backed by unprotected shared memory and accessed by QEMU via
the host file system. VMs requiring shared access are instantiated
with ivshmem devices pointing to the same backing file, instructing
QEMU to map the corresponding memory region into each VM.
Within the guest, ivshmem appears as an emulated PCI device with
an associated (guest) physical memory region for MMIO. Guest
operating systems provide drivers to manage the device and expose
its memory to applications through the file system. Ivshmem is
commonly used for efficient data exchange and signaling between
VMs or between a VM and the host. In the context of Arm CCA,
ivshmem already enables the installation of unprotected shared
mappings into a Realm.
To seamlessly support Mica’s protected and unprotected channels, we extended QEMU’s ivshmem implementation to accept
an additional protected flag. When set, this flag instructs QEMU
to report the corresponding memory region to KVM using the
KVM_MEMORY_ATTRIBUTE_PRIVATE_SHARED attribute, marking it as
backing a protected channel. This allows us to reuse QEMU’s existing ivshmem infrastructure to support protected channels. KVM
will then proceed with the workflow described above, delegating
the granule, marking it as protected shared, and mapping it into
the Realms address spaces using Mica RMIs.
Guest Realm Extensions. On the guest side, we extend the Realm
guest kernel to support policy upload, Mica’s group attestation,
and all the interactions with the RMM. Policies are specified by
the Realm owner or developer as a JSON file (similar to Figure 3)
and embedded into the Realm software stack. They do not have to
be part of the initial attestation measurement and are measured
separetly by Mica as described before. This is important to avoid
circular dependencies between platform attestations, used in policy
files to authenticate peers, and Mica group attestations.
To ease policy upload, we implement a guest kernel module that
exposes a character device at /dev/rsi_upload. After the Realm
has fully booted, a Realm userspace application specifies the policy
by writing the JSON file to this device, for example:
cat /home/realm/policy1.json > /dev/rsi_upload
The driver receives the write requests and accumulates the policy
bytes into an internal buffer. Closing the file descriptor signals the
end of policy upload and triggers parsing of the buffered JSON.
The driver pre-validates the policy and can optionally pre-fault the
Realm’s address space. It then translates the JSON into the binary

format expected by the RMM, and issues an RSI_UPLOAD_POLICY,
passing the guest physical address of the binary blob.
In addition to policy upload, we extend the guest-kernel driver
previously used for standard attestation to support Mica group
attestation. It allows applications to request attestations via an
ioctl call and in turn performs the appropriate RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN
_INIT_GROUP and RSI_ATTEST_TOKEN_CONTINUE_GROUP (§4.4).

6

Evaluation

This section presents a qualitative evaluation of Mica, focusing on
its expressiveness and its ability to support realistic confidential
processing pipelines composed of mutually distrustful components
while preserving data confidentiality end to end. Because Arm CCA
hardware is not yet widely available and our prototype runs on
QEMU’s non–cycle-accurate emulation, we do not report performance numbers. Instead, we focus on the security impact, practical
deployability, and usability of Mica’s policies. Through representative application scenarios, we show how these policies support
real-world communication patterns, analyze their effect on the
trusted computing base, discuss expected performance implications
relative to vanilla CCA, and evaluate the size of the resulting group
attestation reports. All applications are fully implemented and provided as runnable artifacts, demonstrating that Mica’s mechanisms
are deployable in practice.

6.1

Experimental Setup Limitations

The evaluation is subject to two limitations inherent to the current QEMU-based CCA emulation. First, the emulator is not cycleaccurate, which prevents quantitative performance measurement.
While this is not ideal, Mica’s overheads are localized and bounded:
they occur during policy upload and validation — a one-time operation — and during policy checks on control-flow transitions,
which are already handled by the RMM. These checks extend existing RMM logic and operate on compact policy metadata, so the
overhead is bounded.
Second, QEMU 9.2.4 [33] restricts host memory to 3GB, limiting
the size and number of Realms that can run concurrently. In some
cases, this requires using virtual disks for Realms with large working sets instead of memory-resident ramdisks, which do not need
shared memory mappings with the untrusted host. These artifacts
would not appear on real hardware, so where relevant we describe
the intended deployment without these memory constraints.

6.2

Use Cases

We evaluate Mica through three realistic use cases, each illustrating different communication and trust patterns commonly found
in cloud workloads: (1) A shared trusted service accessed by multiple untrusted but confidential clients. (2) A processing pipeline
composed of mutually distrustful proprietary components. (3) A
networked graph of communicating nodes that collectively implement a service. Figure 4 presents an overview of the three use cases,
highlighting the interactions between their components.
Networking service Realm (Fig. 4a). This scenario illustrates
a trusted gateway Realm that mediates all interactions between
clients and an external resource, such as a network interface or
GPU. Using Mica’s any identifier, the gateway can securely be

Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of Distrustful Components

Realm World

Normal World

App

Realm World
Encoder

Normal World

Nudity
Detection

Guard
Rails

Host
Networking
Stack

Normal World

LLM

Host
Networking
Stack

(a)

Realm World

NIC

Host

Networking
Stack

NIC

(b)

(c)

NIC

Figure 4: Application scenarios deployed over Mica. Green indicates trusted/confidential components, red indicates untrusted
components, yellow indicates confidential but distrustful components. Arrows represent different access rights over shared
memory (incoming arrow → read access, outgoing arrow → write access).
reused across mutually distrustful clients, while ensuring that all
interactions with the untrusted host are mediated. This pattern
extends to safely multiplexing confidential devices [38] across shortlived confidential environments, amortizing the cost of device setup.
Our implementation consists of two Realms: a client application
RA and a networking gateway RNet. RNet is the only component
with access to a paravirtualized network interface provided by
the host, while RA has no direct interaction with the host or the
network. Network communication is mediated exclusively through
a protected memory channel RA ↔ RNet. RA writes UDP packets
into this channel, which RNet reads and transmits externally. Inside
the gateway, RNet uses Scapy [11] to reconstruct and manipulate
packets. RNet could be extended to enable functionality such as
filtering, rate limiting, or tunneling before transmission.
Mica policies enforce this structure explicitly. RA is restricted to
mapping only the protected channel shared with RNet. RNet may
map that protected channel (labeled any) to serve multiple clients,
as well as an unprotected read–write region for NIC access; all other
mappings are disallowed. By centralizing all external communication in a single trusted gateway, this design prevents client Realms
from directly interacting with the host while enabling fine-grained,
policy-enforced control over network access.
Multi-Stage Video Moderation (Fig. 4b). This use case represents
a common cloud pattern in which data flows through a sequence
of proprietary processing stages owned by mutually distrustful
vendors. Each stage performs a specific transformation and is not
intended to learn intermediate data or the internal logic of other
components. Confidentiality in such settings relies on enforcing a
strictly feed-forward dataflow, with no backward or lateral communication. This pattern is common in media processing, analytics,
and compliance pipelines.
We prototype this pattern using a three-Realm pipeline RG → RE
→ RN → RG, where a single gateway Realm RG both initiates and
terminates the chain. RG receives encrypted video uploads from
the network and writes the decrypted input into a protected channel. An encoder Realm RE reads from this channel, normalizes and
re-encodes the video using ffmpeg [43], and forwards the result
to a moderation Realm RN, which performs frame-level nudity detection and moderation using nudenet [39]. The processed output
is returned to RG which encrypts and persists to storage. All components run unmodified application code inside confidential VMs,
preserving the confidentiality of proprietary implementations.
Mica enforces the feed-forward structure by construction. RE
and RN may map only a read-only channel from their predecessor

and a write-only channel to their successor; all other mappings
are disallowed. The gateway RG has write-only access to the input
channel and read-only access to the final output channel. Intermediary Realms have no access to the host, storage, the network, or
other Realms, and therefore cannot exfiltrate decrypted video data.
As a result, end-to-end confidentiality is enforced externally by policy, without relying on the functional correctness or cooperation
of individual components.
Guard-Railed LLM Inference (Fig. 4c). This use case captures
applications whose components engage in bidirectional communication, forming a small graph rather than a linear pipeline. Such
patterns arise in interactive services where intermediate components must observe and transform both requests and responses. A
representative example is LLM inference with guardrails, in which
both user prompts and model outputs must be mediated to enforce
safety and policy constraints.
We prototype this pattern using three Realms arranged as a
communication graph: RG ↔ RF ↔ RI. A gateway Realm RG exposes an inference Web API. A filtering Realm RF mediates all
interactions, performing input filtering, prompt normalization, and
system prompt injection using a llama.cpp-based model [35]. The
inference Realm RI runs the main LLM, also using llama.cpp, to
generate draft responses. Outputs flow back from RI to RF for postprocessing before being returned to the client via RG. Protected
read–write channels are established only between adjacent Realms,
ensuring that RF always remains on the communication path for
both inputs and outputs.
Mica enforces this communication graph by policy. RI can communicate only with RF and has no access to the network, persistent
storage, or host interfaces. Similarly, RG can communicate only
with RF and never directly with RI. As a result, neither unfiltered
prompts nor unfiltered model outputs can bypass the guardrail
logic. End-to-end confidentiality and policy compliance are thus
guaranteed by construction.

6.3

Analysis

TCB reduction. In Mica, the TCB only includes the platform
firmware and components that can access confidential data and
have the potential to leak it. As described in Table 2 Mica only
increases the RMM TCB by 12%, while in our deployments, the only
components that could leak are primarily gateways.

Attestation report size (KB)

Al Sadi et al.

6
5
4
3

Vanilla CCA
Mica
5008 B

5464 B

5464 B

Video
Moderation

LLM
Inference

4096 B

Vanilla CCA
(1-realm)

Service VM

Figure 5: Attestation size comparison (in KB) between vanilla
CCA and Mica. Mica’s group attestation size growth is linear
wrt the number of Realms in the pipeline.
Application Realms that implement the processing logic – yellow
in Fig. 4 – are not part of the TCB, even though they handle confidential data, because Mica enforces strict communication policies
that prevent them from exfiltrating information. Gateways, by contrast, mediate all interactions with the untrusted host or external
network and are therefore trusted to maintain confidentiality.
For comparison, in a vanilla CCA deployment, all components
running in separate TEEs that communicate over the network or
host-visible shared memory would be considered part of the TCB.
By constraining interactions and enforcing policies at the platform
level, Mica reduces the TCB by roughly 2–3×, depending on the
number of peers involved in a pipeline.
Performance Implications. While we cannot measure precise
performance on the current QEMU-based setup, Mica’s added overheads compared to vanilla CCA are localized to policy upload and
control-flow checks in the RMM (see §6.1).
On the contrary, Mica enables confidential, unencrypted communication between peers, which is expected to improve performance.
A comparable deployment on vanilla CCA would require encrypting and decrypting all inter-TEE data, and prior work [3] shows
that eliminating these online cryptographic operations can improve
throughput by over two orders of magnitude.
Security Benefits. Apart from end-to-end confidentiality guarantees, Mica also protects against attacks described in prior work [5,
23], in which attackers attempt to subvert control and information
flow within a pipeline of components to exfiltrate sensitive data.
Two representative scenarios illustrate Mica’s protections against
such attacks. In the video moderation pipeline, a compromised encoder has access to unencrypted videos and interacts with the
networking stack. However, Mica’s channel-based policies allow
the encoder only to receive from the networking stack and not send,
preventing any data exfiltration. In the confidential LLM pipeline,
RI is restricted by policy to share memory exclusively with a Realm
of type RG. This ensures that all inputs and outputs are filtered,
preventing an attacker from bypassing the guardrails. Note that
although the second attack could be mitigated using encrypted and
authenticated channels [20], the first cannot be mitigated in this
way because such channels (e.g., TLS) are typically bidirectional;
consequently, if the encoder can receive data from the networking
stack, it can also send data to it.
Group attestation size. Finally we measure the size of Mica’s
group attestation report and how this changes as the number of
peers increases. Fig. 5 reports the attestation report sizes for the

three use cases above and compares them with a vanilla CCA attestation report for a single Realm. Every peer contributes its policy
blob to the attestation. While the actual size may vary, an average policy blob is roughly 450 bytes. Note that to attest the same
deployments in vanilla CCA, a client would have to attest each
component individually, by connecting and receiving an attestation
report from each one of them. Furthermore, the client would have
no indication as to how these components are able to interact.

7

Related Work

Sharing memory between TEEs. Prior work explored mechanisms for protected memory sharing between TEEs. Plug-in Enclave [31] enables read-only shared enclaves on Intel SGX [22],
Cerberus [27] formally verifies immutable shared memory between
enclaves on RISC-V Keystone [28], and Elasticlave [46] supports
writable shared memory on RISC-V. CHERI [41] similarly allows
multiple VM-like compartments to share a single physical address
space. Mica not only introduces protected shared memory in Arm
CCA, but also adds the ability to constrain and attest memory sharing across an entire pipeline using explicit, user-supplied policies.
Constraining communication. Ryoan [20] encapsulates confidential data inside isolated sandboxes built on NaCl [45] and Intel
SGX [22], ensuring that data cannot be exfiltrated even if the component processing it is untrusted. In this model, confidentiality
relies on carefully structuring application logic around a trusted
runtime that explicitly controls data access and flow. Veil [4] introduces enclave-like isolation mechanisms inside AMD SEV-based
CVMs, while Erebor [47] provides sandboxing abstractions for Intel
TDX [21]. More generally, earlier software-based alternatives to
hardware enclaves [13, 19, 24] could be deployed inside a CVM to
restrict access to sensitive data to a small trusted software base, carefully crafted to avoid leakage through untrusted interfaces. Mica
takes a fundamentally different approach. Instead of mediating communication from within the TEE, Mica enforces constraints from
outside the TEE, at the platform level without placing restrictions
or instrumenting application code.
Attesting multiple compartments. Recent work on swarm and
collective attestation [15, 16, 25] provides scalable and privacypreserving methods for group attestation, enabling verification of
multiple TEEs without relying on a single trusted verifier. PRIVÉ [25]
introduces traceable anonymous attestation across swarms, PROVE
[16] allows public verification by multiple uncoordinated verifiers,
and ZEKRA [15] provides control-flow integrity through zeroknowledge proofs. Unlike Mica, these systems generally assume
that the code inside each TEE is trusted once attested.

8

Conclusion

This paper presented Mica, an extension to confidential computing
architectures that decouples confidentiality from trust. By enforcing
user-defined policies to constrain and attest communication paths
between TEEs, Mica alleviates the need to trust the functional
correctness of individual components processing sensitive data.
Through multiple realistic use cases, we showed that Mica enables
building deployments composed of mutually untrusted components
while preserving end-to-end data confidentiality.

Sharing is caring: Attestable and Trusted Workflows out of Distrustful Components

9

Acknowledgments

The research in this paper was supported by the AI Security Institute (AISI) Systemic Safety Grants Programme (UKRI833), UKRI
Open Plus Fellowship (EP/W005271/1 Securing the Next Billion
Consumer Devices on the Edge) and an Amazon Research Award
"Auditable Model Privacy using TEEs". The authors employed ChatGPT models (GPT-5.2, GPT-5.1, GPT-5, and GPT-4o) to correct or
improve grammar on pre-existing text.

References
[1] 2025. Azure Confidential Computing. Microsoft Azure Documentation. https:
//azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/solutions/confidential-compute/.
[2] 2025. Confidential Computing. Google Cloud Documentation. https://cloud.go
ogle.com/security/products/confidential-computing.
[3] Sina Abdollahi, Amir Al Sadi, Marios Kogias, David Kotz, and Hamed Haddadi.
2025. Confidential, Attestable, and Efficient Inter-CVM Communication with
Arm CCA. arXiv:2512.01594 [cs.CR] https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.01594
[4] Adil Ahmad, Botong Ou, Congyu Liu, Xiaokuan Zhang, and Pedro Fonseca.
2023. Veil: A Protected Services Framework for Confidential Virtual Machines..
In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-XXVIII). 378–393.
[5] Kalev Alpernas, Cormac Flanagan, Sadjad Fouladi, Leonid Ryzhyk, Mooly Sagiv,
Thomas Schmitz, and Keith Winstein. 2018. Secure serverless computing using
dynamic information flow control. Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 2, OOPSLA (2018),
118:1–118:26.
[6] Amazon Web Services. 2025. AWS Confidential Computing. AWS Documentation.
https://aws.amazon.com/confidential-computing/.
[7] AMD. 2020. SEV-SNP: Strengthening VM isolation with integrity protection and
more. White Paper, January (2020).
[8] ARM. 2025. Linux kernel with Arm CCA support. https://gitlab.arm.com/linuxarm/linux-cca.
[9] ARM Ltd. 2009. Arm Security Technology — Building a Secure System using TrustZone® Technology. Technical Reference Manual. ARM Ltd. Primary architectural
reference for Arm TrustZone.
[10] Fabrice Bellard. 2005. QEMU, a Fast and Portable Dynamic Translator.. In USENIX
ATC, FREENIX Track. 41–46.
[11] Philippe Biondi. 2007. Scapy: Interactive Packet Manipulation Program. https:
//scapy.net.
[12] Jean-Philippe Brucker. 2024. QEMU patches for running Arm CCA VMs with
KVM. qemu-devel mailing list patch series. https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html
/qemu-devel/2024-04/msg02742.html Patch series enabling confidential VM
support on QEMU for Arm CCA (confidential-guest-support=rme0).
[13] Xiaoxin Chen, Tal Garfinkel, E. Christopher Lewis, Pratap Subrahmanyam, Carl A.
Waldspurger, Dan Boneh, Jeffrey S. Dwoskin, and Dan R. K. Ports. 2008. Overshadow: a virtualization-based approach to retrofitting protection in commodity
operating systems.. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-XIII).
2–13.
[14] The Linux Kernel Community. 2007. Linux Kernel Virtual Machine. https://linuxkvm.org/page/Main_Page.
[15] Heini Bergsson Debes, Edlira Dushku, Thanassis Giannetsos, and Ali Marandi.
2023. ZEKRA: Zero-Knowledge Control-Flow Attestation.. In Proceedings of the
2023 ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security (ASIA CCS).
357–371.
[16] Edlira Dushku, Md Masoom Rabbani, Jo Vliegen, An Braeken, and Nele Mentens.
2023. PROVE: Provable remote attestation for public verifiability. J. Inf. Secur.
Appl. 75 (2023), 103448.
[17] gVisor Authors. 2023. gVisor: The Container Security Platform. https://gvisor.d
ev/.
[18] Norman Hardy. 1988. The Confused Deputy (or why capabilities might have
been invented). ACM SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev. 22, 4 (1988), 36–38.
[19] Owen S. Hofmann, Sangman Kim, Alan M. Dunn, Michael Z. Lee, and Emmett
Witchel. 2013. InkTag: secure applications on an untrusted operating system..
In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-XVIII). 265–278.
[20] Tyler Hunt, Zhiting Zhu, Yuanzhong Xu, Simon Peter, and Emmett Witchel.
2016. Ryoan: A Distributed Sandbox for Untrusted Computation on Secret
Data.. In Proceedings of the 12th Symposium on Operating System Design and
Implementation (OSDI). 533–549.
[21] Intel. 2023. Architecture Specification: Intel Trust Domain Extensions (Intel
TDX) Module. https://software.intel.com/content/dam/develop/external/us/en/
documents/intel-tdx-module-1eas.pdf.
[22] Intel. 2023. Intel Software Guard Extensions (Intel SGX). https://www.intel.com/
content/www/us/en/developer/tools/software-guard-extensions/overview.ht

ml.
[23] Deepak Sirone Jegan, Liang Wang, Siddhant Bhagat, and Michael M. Swift. 2023.
Guarding Serverless Applications with Kalium.. In Proceedings of the 32nd USENIX
Security Symposium. 4087–4104.
[24] Yuekai Jia, Shuang Liu, Wenhao Wang, Yu Chen, Zhengde Zhai, Shoumeng Yan,
and Zhengyu He. 2022. HyperEnclave: An Open and Cross-platform Trusted
Execution Environment.. In Proceedings of the 2022 USENIX Annual Technical
Conference (ATC). 437–454.
[25] Nada El Kassem, Wouter Hellemans, Ioannis Siachos, Edlira Dushku, Stefanos
Vasileiadis, Dimitrios S. Karas, Liqun Chen, Constantinos Patsakis, and Thanassis
Giannetsos. 2025. PRIVÉ: Towards Privacy-Preserving Swarm Attestation. 247–
262.
[26] Butler W. Lampson. 1973. A Note on the Confinement Problem. Commun. ACM
16, 10 (1973), 613–615.
[27] Dayeol Lee, Kevin Cheang, Alexander Thomas, Catherine Lu, Pranav Gaddamadugu, Anjo Vahldiek-Oberwagner, Mona Vij, Dawn Song, Sanjit A. Seshia,
and Krste Asanovic. 2022. Cerberus: A Formal Approach to Secure and Efficient
Enclave Memory Sharing.. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (CCS). 1871–1885.
[28] Dayeol Lee, David Kohlbrenner, Shweta Shinde, Krste Asanovic, and Dawn
Song. 2020. Keystone: an open framework for architecting trusted execution
environments.. In Proceedings of the 2020 EuroSys Conference. 38:1–38:16.
[29] Hugo Lefeuvre, David Chisnall, Marios Kogias, and Pierre Olivier. 2023. Towards
(Really) Safe and Fast Confidential I/O.. In Proceedings of The 19th Workshop on
Hot Topics in Operating Systems (HotOS-XIX). 214–222.
[30] Dingji Li, Zeyu Mi, Chenhui Ji, Yifan Tan, Binyu Zang, Haibing Guan, and
Haibo Chen. 2023. Bifrost: Analysis and Optimization of Network I/O Tax
in Confidential Virtual Machines.. In Proceedings of the 2023 USENIX Annual
Technical Conference (ATC). 1–15.
[31] Mingyu Li, Yubin Xia, and Haibo Chen. 2021. Confidential Serverless Made Efficient with Plug-In Enclaves.. In Proceedings of the 48th International Symposium
on Computer Architecture (ISCA). 306–318.
[32] Xupeng Li, Xuheng Li, Christoffer Dall, Ronghui Gu, Jason Nieh, Yousuf Sait,
and Gareth Stockwell. 2022. Design and Verification of the Arm Confidential
Compute Architecture.. In Proceedings of the 16th Symposium on Operating System
Design and Implementation (OSDI). 465–484.
[33] Linaro. 2023. Qemu support for Arm CCA. https://git.codelinaro.org/linaro/dc
ap/qemu/-/tree/cca/2025-06-12?ref_type=heads.
[34] Linaro. 2024. Realm Management Monitor (RMM). https://git.codelinaro.org/lin
aro/dcap/rmm/-/tree/cca/v8?ref_type=heads.
[35] Meta. 2023. llamacpp. https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp. Accessed:
2026-01.
[36] Masanori Misono, Dimitrios Stavrakakis, Nuno Santos, and Pramod Bhatotia.
2024. Confidential VMs Explained: An Empirical Analysis of AMD SEV-SNP and
Intel TDX. Proc. ACM Meas. Anal. Comput. Syst. 8, 3 (2024), 36:1–36:42.
[37] Chris Oo. 2024. OpenHCL: A Linux based paravisor for Confidential VMs. Linux
Plumbers Conference 2024. https://lpc.events/event/18/contributions/1862/attac
hments/1633/3376/04-OpenHCL.pdf Presentation on the design and architecture
of OpenHCL as a paravisor for confidential computing VMs.
[38] PCI-SIG. 2022. TEE Device Interface Security Protocol (TDISP). PCI Express
ECN to the PCIe Base Specification. https://pcisig.com/PCI%20Express/ECN
/Base/TEEDeviceInterfaceSecurityProtocol Defines an architecture for trusted
I/O virtualization between TEEs and PCIe devices, including trust establishment
and secure attach/detach of device interfaces.
[39] Bedapudi Praneeth et al. 2024. NudeNet. https://github.com/notAI-tech/NudeNet.
Accessed: 2026-01.
[40] QEMU Project. 2024. IVSHMEM Device. https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/s
ystem/devices/ivshmem.html. Accessed: 2026-01-12.
[41] Vasily A. Sartakov, Lluís Vilanova, David M. Eyers, Takahiro Shinagawa, and
Peter R. Pietzuch. 2022. CAP-VMs: Capability-Based Isolation and Sharing in the
Cloud.. In Proceedings of the 16th Symposium on Operating System Design and
Implementation (OSDI). 597–612.
[42] Satoru Takekoshi, Manami Mori, Takaaki Fukai, and Takahiro Shinagawa. 2025.
BadAML: Exploiting Legacy Firmware Interfaces to Compromise Confidential
Virtual Machines.. In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security (CCS). 4469–4483.
[43] The FFmpeg project. 2025. FFmpeg. https://www.ffmpeg.org/. Accessed:
2026-01.
[44] Stavros Volos, Kapil Vaswani, and Rodrigo Bruno. 2018. Graviton: Trusted
Execution Environments on GPUs.. In Proceedings of the 13th Symposium on
Operating System Design and Implementation (OSDI). 681–696.
[45] Bennet Yee, David Sehr, Gregory Dardyk, J. Bradley Chen, Robert Muth, Tavis
Ormandy, Shiki Okasaka, Neha Narula, and Nicholas Fullagar. 2009. Native
Client: A Sandbox for Portable, Untrusted x86 Native Code.. In Proceedings of the
30th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P). 79–93.
[46] Jason Zhijingcheng Yu, Shweta Shinde, Trevor E. Carlson, and Prateek Saxena.
2022. Elasticlave: An Efficient Memory Model for Enclaves.. In Proceedings of the

Al Sadi et al.

31st USENIX Security Symposium. 4111–4128.
[47] Chuqi Zhang, Rahul Priolkar, Yuancheng Jiang, Yuan Xiao, Mona Vij, Zhenkai
Liang, and Adil Ahmad. 2025. Erebor: A Drop-In Sandbox Solution for Private
Data Processing in Untrusted Confidential Virtual Machines.. In Proceedings of
the 2025 EuroSys Conference. 1210–1228.

[48] Ziqiao Zhou, Anjali, Weiteng Chen, Sishuai Gong, Chris Hawblitzel, and Weidong
Cui. 2024. VeriSMo: A Verified Security Module for Confidential VMs.. In Proceedings of the 18th Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementation
(OSDI). 599–614.

