2025-10-27

Toward provably private analytics and insights
into GenAI use
Albert Cheu*, 1 , Artem Lagzdin*, 1 , Brett McLarnon1 , Daniel Ramage1 , Katharine Daly*, 1 , Marco Gruteser1 ,
Peter Kairouz1 , Rakshita Tandon1 , Stanislav Chiknavaryan1 , Timon Van Overveldt*, 1 and Zoe Gong1

arXiv:2510.21684v1 [cs.CR] 24 Oct 2025

* Primary authors of this paper, 1 Google

Large-scale systems that compute analytics over a fleet of devices must achieve high privacy and security
standards while also meeting data quality, usability, and resource efficiency expectations. We present
a next-generation federated analytics system that uses Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) based
on technologies like AMD SEV-SNP (Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), 2020) and Intel TDX (Intel, 2025)
to provide verifiable privacy guarantees for all server-side processing. In our system, devices encrypt
and upload data, tagging it with a limited set of allowable server-side processing steps. An open
source, TEE-hosted key management service guarantees that the data is accessible only to those steps,
which are themselves protected by TEE confidentiality and integrity assurance guarantees. The system
is designed for flexible workloads, including processing unstructured data with LLMs (for structured
summarization) before aggregation into differentially private insights (with automatic parameter tuning).
The transparency properties of our system allow any external party to verify that all raw and derived
data is processed in TEEs, protecting it from inspection by the system operator, and that differential
privacy is applied to all released results. This system has been successfully deployed in production,
providing helpful insights into real-world GenAI experiences.

Keywords: Trusted Execution Environments, Private Inference, Structured Summarization, Differential
Privacy, Analytics, Scalable Systems, Federated Analytics, AI Insights

1. Introduction
Generative AI enables personalized experiences and
powers the creation of unstructured data including
summaries, transcriptions, and more. Understanding
how users engage with powerful GenAI tools can provide insights into real-world AI usage (Chatterji et al.,
2025; Tamkin et al., 2024) and help GenAI developers
make their tools even more useful by understanding
common patterns and failure modes. However, the
process of deriving meaningful insights from user data
presents serious privacy challenges, especially when
applied to sensitive or on-device data. This paper
describes the challenge of offering “provably private”
analytics and insights on unstructured data and describes a system that sets a new bar in terms of its
formal privacy guarantees. Extending earlier work
in federated analytics (Eichner et al., 2024; Ramage,
Daniel and Mazzocchi, Stefano, 2020), our system
leverages the power of large language models (LLMs),
differentially private (DP) aggregation, and trusted
execution environments (TEEs) to generate dynamic,
provably private insights into how people use LLMs
and GenAI tools.

Corresponding author(s): dramage@google.com
© 2025 Google. All rights reserved

To build a provably private system for analytics and
insights, we must first define the set of parties involved
and their goals, the set of privacy threats to be mitigated, and what constitutes a standard of “proof.” In
our setting, a service provider deploys AI tools to a
user population. These tools may operate on unstructured inputs and outputs, like speech, text, images, or
video. The goal of a privacy-preserving analytics system is to enable the service provider to gain aggregate
insights into the tool’s usage while (a) observing no
unaggregated data or intermediates and (b) observing
only aggregated output that has been generated with
an appropriate formal anonymization guarantee such
as differential privacy (DP) (Dwork et al., 2006). We
assume that the service provider, if they are the operator of the analytics system, may attempt to observe
or even interfere with processing in order to learn
facts about an individual. Our provably private system for analytics and insights offers external verifiers
the ability to tell if properties (a) or (b) are violated1 ,
even without the service provider’s cooperation in the
verification process.
1While our system prevents direct access to unaggregated data or
intermediates, it does not yet protect against possible data leakage
through side-channels.

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

Our system achieves this by using Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) backed by technologies
like AMD SEV-SNP (Advanced Micro Devices (AMD),
2020) and Intel TDX (Intel, 2025). 2 TEEs provide
confidentiality through memory encryption and integrity of executed code, and they allow that code to
be remotely attested. Our system leverages these capabilities to enable devices to independently upload data
with the guarantee that subsequent privacy-preserving
server-side processing logic will run prior to any derived (aggregate) data becoming inspectable to the
service provider. Service providers who use our system
configure both an on-device query that is deployed
to devices as well as a server-side workflow that supports LLM inference and aggregation with parameters
that are automatically tuned to achieve high-utility
central DP guarantees. A DP algorithm mathematically bounds the ability to re-identify or infer the data
belonging to a given DP unit, which in our current
system is a single device upload, from the output.
The next section of this paper discusses related work
on large-scale analytics systems and other systems involving TEEs. Following that, we describe the components of our system and detail how we achieve verifiable privacy guarantees given our trust model. After
establishing this baseline description of our system, we
go into more detail about certain advanced features,
including LLM inference and DP autotuning. Lastly
we discuss future improvements we plan to make to
our system, including supporting accelerators, flexible
DP units, and user-level 𝑘-anonymity.

2. Related Work
Large-scale systems that compute analytics over a fleet
of devices have been used to enable improvements in
on-device language models used by the Android keyboard (Sun et al., 2024), identify iconic scenes in
Apple Photos (Apple, 2023), and provide insights into
aggregate health experiences via Google Health Studies (Google, 2020). Given the sensitivity of on-device
data, the privacy expectations of on-device data owners, and the risk exposure for companies with access
to on-device data, privacy and security guarantees are
an important part of these analytics systems. Different
systems have addressed privacy and security goals in
a variety of ways.
Systems that use local DP (Team, 2017) apply noise
to client uploads such that the server only sees data
that is already private, but the utility of the final results
suffers in comparison to central DP methods where
noise is applied on the server post-aggregation. Multi2 Our system assumes that the TEE hardware manufacturer and
analytics service provider are independent and non-colluding.

party computation (MPC) systems utilize secret sharing amongst clients to ensure that the service provider
is only able to interpret the data after aggregating
uploads from many clients (Bonawitz et al., 2017),
or they split devices’ data among multiple servers assumed to be operated by non-colluding entities to
ensure no single server is able to view one device’s
raw data (Corrigan-Gibbs and Boneh, 2017). In addition to requiring advanced coordination, MPC systems
are susceptible to Sybil attacks, prompting some MPC
systems to also incorporate distributed DP schemes
(Kairouz et al., 2021; Talwar et al., 2024) where a
small amount of noise is added to client uploads such
that aggregating these noised client uploads produces
a final noised result mirroring a central DP guarantee.
Trusted execution environments (TEEs) have also
been used in recent systems requiring externally verifiable guarantees for server-side processing of sensitive
data due to their ability to provide data confidentiality and workload integrity. With modern models
becoming too large to run on-device, TEEs have been
deployed server-side to run LLM inference over sensitive data (Meta, 2025; Research, 2024), with the
privacy narratives of these deployments differing on
the level of external inspectability and operator trust
required. Papaya supports large-scale analytics (Srinivas et al., 2025) and learning (Huba et al., 2022) via
separate stacks that both use TEEs server-side, and
this paper describes improvements to an earlier iteration of our multi-purpose TEE-based solution (Eichner
et al., 2024). There are subtle differences between
our system and Papaya in how we achieve large-scale
private analytics processing via TEEs, including which
types of server-side workloads are supported, how
server-side work is scheduled and executed, and how
verifiable privacy is provided.

3. System Description
Our data processing system, shown in Figure 1, consists of three main components:
• A key management service (KMS), which runs in a
TEE and which manages keys for encrypting private data and processing that data using publicly
verifiable pipelines.
• A client library for verifying KMS-managed public
encryption keys before upload, running on enduser devices.
• Data processing pipelines, in which untrusted orchestration logic routes encrypted data amongst
a collection of data processing binaries running
in TEEs, with the KMS mediating all access to decryption and encryption keys, in order to produce
a final, verifiably private result.
2

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

Figure 1 | The data and verification flow in our TEE-based private analytics system.
These components are central to achieving the following system properties:
• Verifiability of data processing. Devices must
be able to know prior to uploading data which
server-side processing binaries will have access to
uploaded data and under what constraints (e.g.
differential privacy parameters) they will be able
to operate over the uploaded data. Our client library tags uploaded data with data access policies
to capture this information.
• Confidentiality. All server components that access unencrypted client data must run in a TEE
and be remotely attestable. The KMS only provides decryption keys to binaries that match the
access policy attached to uploaded data.

• Asynchrony. The client device to processing
pipeline communication must be secure, compatible with standard upload mechanisms (HTTP
POST to temporary storage), and asynchronous.
The KMS acts as a trusted mediator between the
client devices and the server-side processing binaries, allowing the client upload stage to be decoupled from the server-side processing stage.
• Best-effort TTL enforcement. The uploaded
data must be subject to a time-to-live (TTL), although enforcement of this TTL is not verifiable.
• Scalability. The system should scale to billions
of records uploaded per day and have high availability.
In the following subsections we describe the KMS
3

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

and access policies in more detail, discuss how the
privacy properties of our system can be verified by
external parties, and introduce a canonical server-side
workload supported by our system.
3.1. Key Management Service
Conceptually, the Key Management Service (KMS) is
a fault-tolerant service which combines a key store for
holding keys needed to decrypt uploaded data with a
small stateful database for tracking which inputs have
already been processed. Combining the two services
ensures that the usage database cannot be cleared or
disrupted without also affecting the corresponding
decryption keys.
The KMS enables secure asynchronous communication between data producers and consumers using
pre-existing channels, such as uploads with HTTP
POST, transmission with Google Cloud Pub/Sub, or
processing with Apache Beam. Client devices and nonterminal processing steps are data producers; processing steps are data consumers.
3.1.1. Design Overview
The KMS is implemented as a TEE-based key management service that issues hybrid public key encryption
(HPKE) keys for protecting both uploaded data and
short-lived intermediate files produced by processing
pipelines. These pipelines are also TEE-based, and the
KMS will only share decryption keys with the pipeline
worker nodes running the specific software versions
authorized by an access policy selected at the time the
data was uploaded. Client devices are therefore able
to know at upload time precisely in which ways their
data is permitted to be used. Client devices require
that both the access policy and KMS software have
been recorded in a public transparency log, preventing
split-view attacks where different clients are served
different access policies or KMS implementations.
The KMS also stores rollback-protected state for
each pipeline, allowing the pipelines to track privacy
budgets using a format determined by that pipeline.
These budgets often have very concise representations
that do not scale with the number of uploads (e.g.
“all data before 2025-01-01 has no remaining budget”); in cases where the budget-tracking state is large,
pipelines can instead store a cryptographic checksum.
State updates use optimistic concurrency: pipelines
are allowed to run and produce encrypted outputs
without updating the state, but the pipelines can make
a state mutation a prerequisite for releasing an output outside of a TEE. Note that the KMS guarantees
integrity but not secrecy for the pipeline state.
Encryption keys and pipeline state are stored in

the same replicated key-value database that is kept
in-memory in TEEs and replicated using the RAFT
consensus protocol (Ongaro and Ousterhout, 2014).
Any attempt to clear stored pipeline state by restarting
the RAFT cluster would also destroy the decryption
keys for uploaded data and pipeline intermediates.
3.1.2. Access Policies
An access policy describes which data processing
pipelines can access uploaded data, the specific binaries making up those pipelines, and any constraints
associated with the processing logic performed by the
binaries (e.g. differential privacy parameters).
An access policy is composed of three different layers:
• The top-level policy specifies the different data
processing pipelines that are authorized to access
the data. Specifically, it contains one or more
logical pipeline policies.
• A logical pipeline policy describes one or more
authorized variants (i.e. versions) of a pipeline.
Supporting multiple versions enables access policy updates to be decoupled from rolling out new
processing pipeline versions. While the logical
pipeline policy can contain multiple variants, usually only one of those variants will actually process the uploaded data.
• A pipeline variant policy describes the specific
sequence of TEE-hosted binaries that are authorized to process the uploaded data, as well as
any privacy-relevant configuration for those binaries (e.g. differential privacy parameters). They
encode a directed bipartite graph, one set of
nodes representing data in the system (e.g. initial
uploads, pipeline intermediates) and the other
nodes representing data processing steps that
consume inputs and produce outputs.
The use of access policies allows a client to delegate
remote attestation responsibilities to the KMS: clients
only attest a single server (the KMS), not a whole chain
of them. This (a) reduces the number of attestations
sent to the client, saving bandwidth, and (b) allows the
processing jobs to be started after the client uploads
data, simplifying server management.
3.1.3. TTLs via Crypto-Erasure
Upload encryption keys generated by the KMS have expiration times, after which the KMS erases them from
its memory, preventing further use. Encryption keys
for pipeline intermediates similarly have expiration
times, and when a pipeline requests decryption keys
for its inputs from the KMS, it will not receive any keys
4

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

that expire before the encryption keys for its outputs.
This ensures that a well-behaved pipeline doesn’t accidentally extend the lifespan of input data beyond the
intended TTL. However, getting access to a trusted
time source is difficult — especially at high QPS. Instead, the KMS maintains a replicated, monotonically
increasing record of the observed system time; this
time is used to (a) set issued at and expiration times
on new keys and (b) trigger the erasure of expired old
keys.
If the (untrusted) system time is far in the past, the
keys generated by the KMS will already be expired and
clients will not upload data. If the (untrusted) system
time is far in the future, keys generated will not be
valid yet and clients will not upload data. Moreover,
the KMS will expire any data that was previously uploaded with a more accurate timestamp. The system
operator is therefore motivated to provide an accurate
clock.
3.2. External Verifiability
Clients require that the public encryption key they encrypt their data with was produced by a KMS whose
software, running in a TEE, is published to a public
transparency log. They do this by verifying a transparency log inclusion proof of the KMS’s software and
TEE attestation evidence, and by verifying that the
encryption key is rooted, via a signature chain, in that
inclusion proof. Clients also require that data access
policies are published to a transparency log, by similarly validating an inclusion proof for the digest of
the access policy. Both the KMS software and data
processing software are reproducibly buildable from
open-source code. This ensures that both the KMS
software and data access policies are auditable: anyone can monitor the transparency log entries and trace
the KMS software binary digests and access policy digests to the corresponding KMS and data processing
source code.
Server-side pipelines consist of untrusted orchestration logic that passes encrypted data amongst TEEs
running data processing binaries until a persistent
state update request is finally sent to the KMS in exchange for a decryption key allowing access to a final
result. Because access policies specify not just the
data processing binaries but also their configuration,
the process by which client data is transformed by
the processing TEEs into a final result also becomes
verifiable, even in the event of a malicious orchestrator. While the KMS only provides decryption keys to
data processing binaries specified in the access policy,
it does not preclude attacks that inject Sybil inputs
or leverage side-channel leakage. Side-channels include lengths of encrypted data, timing of TEE-hosted

applications, and memory access patterns by those
applications. As discussed in our prior work (Eichner et al., 2024), verifiable DP addresses Sybils but
mitigating side-channels is an ongoing research and
engineering effort.

3.3. Differentially Private Aggregation
The canonical use case for our system thus far in
Google production use has centered around running
server-side SQL group-by aggregations over uploaded
client data with verifiable DP guarantees. We support
both a closed-set DP variant (where the domain of
possible groups is specified alongside the group-by
query) and an open-set DP variant (where the domain
is not known in advance). In addition to configuring an upload task and a server-side aggregation SQL
query, users of our system have the option to specify
additional server-side per-DP-unit work that runs prior
to the aggregation SQL query. The server-side per-DPunit work could be a SQL query that will run on each
DP unit independently, or as will be discussed further
in Section 4, it could involve running LLM inference
over each DP unit independently. Currently we treat
each upload as a separate DP unit, but in Section 6.2,
we will describe future plans to increase the flexibility of our system by allowing uploads to consist of
multiple DP units and/or partial DP units.
In order to provide a verifiable DP guarantee for
this canonical use case, we must prove (a) any serverside per-DP-unit work is applied at precisely the DP
unit scope, (b) a (𝜀, 𝛿)-DP aggregation algorithm is
executed that contribution bounds each DP unit, aggregates, then noises/thresholds the results, and (c)
the privacy budget in the pipeline state tracks the appropriate information. The access policy we use for
these workloads ensures all of this by specifying the
required data processing binary, the required runtime
configuration for the data processing binary (this includes the 𝜀 and 𝛿 values as well as an identifier for
the DP aggregation algorithm that must run), and a
limit on how many times a given client upload may
be used to produce an aggregated result. Notably, in
order to provide a verifiable DP guarantee we do not
actually need to prove the exact server-side per-DPunit pre-aggregation work that is applied nor the exact
DP unit contribution bounds that are used, which is
why these values are not included in the access policy.
See Appendix A for an example of this access policy.
The pipeline maintains KMS-protected state to ensure
that client uploads are included in no more than the
configured maximum number of aggregate results.

5

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

4. Structured Summarization
Understanding how users engage with the diverse features of modern GenAI tools yields valuable insights
and identifies failure modes. Developers can then
use this data to progressively enhance the user experience (Chatterji et al., 2025; Tamkin et al., 2024).
However, analyzing GenAI usage requires processing
sensitive user data, particularly with on-device model
deployments. This data is often unstructured, making
traditional SQL-based analytics methods insufficient
for processing it.
Consider classifying text transcripts stored on a device. The traditional method of sending them to a
server for processing creates a significant privacy risk
by exposing the raw data. An alternative is processing data directly on-device, but the quality of this
approach is capped by the limitations of smaller ondevice models, and this approach can also place a
heavy computational load on the device, degrading
the user experience.
To address these concerns, we deploy LLM-based
structured summarization inside a TEE. This method
allows for the intelligent processing of sensitive user
data while guaranteeing the raw data is never exposed.
The entire process is confined to the TEE, ensuring that
only aggregated and anonymized results are available
for analysis and preserving the privacy of the original
data.
We implement this system by integrating
gemma.cpp, a lightweight C++ inference engine for the Gemma foundation models (Google,
2025b), into TEE-hosted binaries (Google, 2025a).
To enforce strict data isolation, each inference run
processes only a single upload’s data, and the engine’s
internal state is completely re-initialized afterward
to prevent cross-upload data contamination. This
inference step is performed before the server-side
per-DP-unit SQL query and DP aggregation. Even if a
prompt attempts to single out a single device upload,
the DP guarantee ensures that the information from
this upload will not be revealed.
The system is compatible with any open-source
Gemma model (Kaggle (2025)). The model weights
and the associated prompt are provisioned at runtime through an API exposed by the TEE-hosted binary. We have successfully used Gemma3 4B models
in our production deployments using AMD Secure
Encrypted Virtualization-Secure Nested Paging (SEVSNP) CPUs Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) (2020).
Figure 2 shows an example DP distribution of transcript topics within the Google Recorder application
Play (2025), as categorized by the Gemma model.

5. Contribution Bounds and Autotuning
Initial queries. In the initial version of our system
Eichner et al. (2024), we processed server-side workloads with DP aggregation logic taking the following
syntax:
SELECT
WITH D I F F E R E N T I A L _ P R I V A C Y OPTIONS (
epsilon =[ number ] , delta =[ number ] ,
m a x _ g r o u p s _ c o n t r i b u t e d =[ number ])
key_1 ,
key_2 ,
... ,
SUM ( value_1 ) @ { L_inf =[ number ] , L_1 =[
number ] , L_2 =[ number ]} AS
total_value_1 ,
SUM ( value_2 ) @ { L_inf =[ number ] , L_1 =[
number ] , L_2 =[ number ]} AS
total_value_2 ,
...
FROM C l ie n tQ u e ry R es u l ts
GROUP BY key_1 , key_2 , ...

The parameters max_groups_contributed,
L_inf, L_1, and L_2 constitute contribution
bounds, which control how much any single DP unit
can influence the computation. To illustrate each
parameter’s meaning, consider a query that adds
up dollars spent across many locations. Specifically,
there is one grouping column encoding locations
and one numerical value being summed that tracks
expenditures.
• max_groups_contributed: limits the number
of locations receiving money from one DP unit.
• L_inf: limits how much one DP unit spends at
any location.
• L_1: limits the total dollars spent by one DP unit,
across all locations.
• L_2: limits the square-root of the sum of squared
dollars spent, across all locations.
Differentially private algorithms each require3 some
combination of these bounds: if we did not perform
contribution bounding, there would be no finite scale
of variance that would mask any DP unit’s contribution.
Conversely, we can prove DP guarantees for an algorithm that enforces an upper limit on contributions
and scales noise linearly with that bound.
Challenges. A data analyst hoping to use our system
may not know these contribution bounds; the goal
3 If

the

domain

of

the

grouping

keys

is

unknown,

max_groups_contributed & L_inf are required to privately
identify the subset of the domain present in the data. If the domain
is known, either L_1, L_2 or the pair max_groups_contributed
& L_inf are required for the Laplace or Gaussian mechanisms.

6

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

Figure 2 | An example differentially private distribution of transcripts in the Recorder application across various
topics, as categorized by the Gemma model. Inner rectangle size is proportional to relative topic frequency.
of analytics is, after all, to learn about an unknown
dataset. In an ideal interface, the privacy parameters
𝜀, 𝛿 would be the only necessary parameters; if the
analyst knew tight contribution bounds, they could
provide them as optional inputs.
Although arbitrary contribution bounds could be
entered with no effect on differential privacy, doing so
would almost certainly harm accuracy: overly small
values will dampen the signal, leading to overly biased
aggregates, while overly large values will inflate the
variance beyond what is necessary.
Another approach is to apply a quantilefinding algorithm (Durfee, 2023). For example,
max_groups_contributed can be set to, say, the
83rd percentile of the number of groups that a DP
unit contributes to. Previous iterations of federated
analytics placed the responsibility of computing such
queries on the data analyst. This a point of friction
for on-boarding so repeating that design pattern risks
dissuading potential users from engaging with our
system (and possibly DP in general). Additionally,
the sensitive data is walled off from the analyst by
design, so they would have to run the quantile query
on a suitable proxy dataset; acquiring public data
(or generating synthetic data) that aligns with the
sensitive data has its own host of challenges.
Our Solution. In the latest iteration of our system,
we automatically tune the parameters in question by
running the quantile queries on a fraction of the data
available to us. At a high level, we do the following:
1. Using the SQL query, identify which contribution
bounds are required but absent; these will be
tuned.
2. Based on privacy budget 𝜀 and the number of
parameters to tune, randomly divide the 𝑛 inputs
into two partitions 𝑆, 𝑆; we elaborate on criteria
for 𝑆 later.
3. For each parameter to tune, apply a differentially

private quantile algorithm on 𝑆 to obtain an estimate of the 𝑘 = 83rd percentile.4 The 𝜀 budget
is split across the parameters. Though it may be
tempting to use a non-DP algorithm, doing so
opens the door to Sybil attacks; see Appendix B.
4. Apply an ( 𝜀, 𝛿)-differentially private histogram
algorithm on 𝑆 using the tuned parameters from
the previous step. Both the histogram and the
tuned values are revealed to the user.

𝑆 is created by generating a Bernoulli sample
for each upload. The Bernoulli parameter is big
enough such that the outputs of the auto-tuning
algorithm are 90% likely to be representative of
the whole population. For example, when tuning
max_groups_contributed & L_inf, there is a
90% chance of getting (a) a number between the
( 𝑘 − 10)th and ( 𝑘 + 10)th percentiles of the number
of groups that a DP unit contributes to & (b) a number between the ( 𝑘 − 10)th and ( 𝑘 + 10)th percentiles
of the maximum value of a contribution. We defer
mathematical formalism and analysis to Appendix B

The autotuning step constitutes a data processing
pipeline that requires authorization from the KMS. As
a result, the access policy needs to permit a bundle
of DP quantile queries in addition to the DP group-by
aggregation. Even when autotuning occurs prior to
aggregation, the privacy parameters of the server-side
workflow remain the ( 𝜀, 𝛿) specified in the SQL aggregation query by virtue of partitioning the dataset: no
DP unit is ingested by both autotuning and aggregation.

4 𝑘 = 83 was found to result in a local minima of sample complexity when there is 1 parameter to tune; optimization for larger
number of parameters is an interesting line of future work.

7

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

6. Future Work
6.1. Accelerators and GenAI Applications
Structured summarization is a foundational step toward our goal of delivering provably private insights
for Generative AI features. To scale structured summarization and support LLMs exceeding 20B parameters,
we are integrating our system with Intel Trust Domain
Extensions (TDX) (Intel (2025)) and NVIDIA H100
GPUs (NVIDIA, 2023). Leveraging the GPU confidential computing capabilities will allow us to perform the
LLM inference step directly on the GPU, ensuring sensitive user data never leaves the trusted environment
and greatly improving the performance and scalability
properties of our privacy-preserving analytics system.
This advancement will unlock new capabilities, including differentially private clustering (Liu et al., 2025)
and synthetic data generation (Augenstein et al., 2020;
Hu et al., 2025), and more.

trusted server code. Our client library will also support
periodically rotating this ID.
Before DP units are aggregated together using a DP
algorithm, any server-side mapping transformations
over client data must not (a) allow the mapping output for one DP unit’s data to be influenced by data
belonging to a separate DP unit, or (b) re-map data to
a different DP unit. Transformations satisfying these
requirements may occur either before or after DP unit
reconstruction, which is the process of regrouping
rows of data into DP units by inspecting the privacy
id, event time, and partition information for each row
of data. In order to properly parallelize DP unit reconstruction across many machines, we will ensure
that all data belonging to a single DP unit gets sent to
the same machine. The DP aggregation that follows
will apply contribution bounding at the scope of these
reconstructed DP units.
6.3. 𝑘-anonymity

6.2. Flexible DP units
As mentioned in Section 3, our system aims to decouple the collection of client data from the processing
of this data server-side. Our current DP data processing pipelines treat each upload as a separate DP unit,
meaning that if a customer desires a per-user / perweek DP unit, they must pay careful attention to the
schedule at which devices upload data. We aspire to
decouple client data collection from the concept of
DP units, such that devices can upload data on an
arbitrary schedule without impacting the server-side
result. In some cases customers may require a TTL for
on-device data that is shorter than the desired DP time
unit (e.g. a 2-day on-device TTL vs a 7-day DP time
unit), necessitating a different approach than simply
treating each upload as a distinct DP unit.
To address these limitations, we are adding the ability to reconstruct DP units from client uploads during
the server-side processing step. Customers will define
the desired DP unit in the access policy by specifying
a DP time unit schedule and any relevant partitions
(e.g. if a customer desired per-user / per-week / perlocation DP, they would specify a weekly DP time unit
schedule and “location” as the relevant partition in
the access policy). In this approach, uploads will not
be expected to correspond to DP units in any way;
uploads that contain data from multiple DP units or
represent incomplete DP units are all acceptable. We
will require, however, that uploads contain a privacy
ID (an ID that is expected to remain consistent for at
least an entire DP unit) as well as event time information to allow us to reconstruct DP units server-side.
The privacy ID will be stored within the encrypted
part of the upload and will thus not be visible to un-

We are also planning to add 𝑘-anonymity support to
our system. If a 𝑘 value is configured via a SQL hint
in the server-side workload, data for a given partition
will only be released if at least 𝑘 devices contributed
to that partition. Unlike DP, server-side 𝑘-anonymity
is susceptible to Sybil attacks because fabricated inputs can boost the apparent size of a group. Thus
𝑘-anonymity is only appropriate in cases where customers are willing to assume a trusted orchestrator
(note that our default threat model assumes an untrusted orchestrator). In order to properly identify
the number of unique devices contributing to a given
partition during an aggregation window, customers
must ensure that the privacy ID in a device’s uploads
remains consistent for data belonging to that aggregation window.

7. Conclusion
We have described our TEE-based private analytics
system, which achieves verifiable privacy guarantees
under a threat model involving an untrusted server operator while also prioritizing usability and scalability.
We support multiple forms of server-side workloads,
including ones with a structured summarization step
and/or SQL query, and we also support automatic tuning of DP parameters to enable easy onboarding for
a wide range of use cases. The KMS and access policy design allows for decoupling of the client upload
step and server-side pipeline step while still supporting highly scalable server-side processing. Our future
plans include scaling the structured summarization
capabilities by running on GPUs, improving operability by decoupling client uploads from DP units, and
8

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

supporting 𝑘-anonymity.

doi: 10.1007/11681878\_14.

URL https:

//doi.org/10.1007/11681878_14.

8. Acknowledgements
The authors thank Brendan McMahan for thorough
feedback on this paper.

References
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). AMD SEV-SNP:
Strengthening VM Isolation with Integrity Protection and More, January 2020. URL https://do

cs.amd.com/v/u/en-US/SEV-SNP-strengt
hening-vm-isolation-with-integrity-p
rotection-and-more. Technical Report.
Apple. Learning iconic scenes with differential privacy. https://machinelearning.apple.com/
research/scenes-differential-privacy,
2023.
S. Augenstein, H. B. McMahan, D. Ramage, S. Ramaswamy, P. Kairouz, M. Chen, R. Mathews, and
B. A. y Arcas. Generative Models for Effective ML
on Private, Decentralized Datasets, 2020. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.06679.
K. Bonawitz, V. Ivanov, B. Kreuter, A. Marcedone,
H. B. McMahan, S. Patel, D. Ramage, A. Segal, and
K. Seth. Practical secure aggregation for privacypreserving machine learning. In ACM SIGSAC Conf.
on Comp. and Comm. Security, pages 1175–1191.
ACM, 2017.
A. Chatterji, T. Cunningham, D. J. Deming, Z. Hitzig,
C. Ong, C. Y. Shan, and K. Wadman. How People
Use ChatGPT, 2025. URL https://doi.org/10
.3386/w34255.
H. Corrigan-Gibbs and D. Boneh. Prio: Private, robust,
and scalable computation of aggregate statistics.
In 14th USENIX symposium on networked systems
design and implementation (NSDI 17), pages 259–
282, 2017.
D. Durfee. Unbounded differentially private quantile and maximum estimation. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36:77691–77712,
2023.
C. Dwork, F. McSherry, K. Nissim, and A. D. Smith.
Calibrating noise to sensitivity in private data analysis. In S. Halevi and T. Rabin, editors, Theory of
Cryptography, Third Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2006, New York, NY, USA, March 4-7,
2006, Proceedings, volume 3876 of Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, pages 265–284. Springer, 2006.

H. Eichner, D. Ramage, K. Bonawitz, D. Huba, T. Santoro, B. McLarnon, T. Van Overveldt, N. Fallen,
P. Kairouz, A. Cheu, et al. Confidential federated
computations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.10764,
2024.
Google. Advancing health research with google health
studies. https://blog.google/technolo
gy/health/google-health-studies-app/,
2020.
Google. Confidential federated compute – public teehosted binaries for verifiable server-side computation, 2025a. URL https://github.com/googl

e-parfait/confidential-federated-com
pute.
Google. Gemma.cpp – lightweight, standalone c++
inference engine for google’s gemma models, 2025b.
URL https://github.com/google/gemma.cp
p.
Y. Hu, R. McKenna, D. Yu, S. Wu, H. Zhao, Z. Xu, and
P. Kairouz. ACTG-ARL: Differentially Private Conditional Text Generation with RL-Boosted Control,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.1
8232.
D. Huba, J. Nguyen, K. Malik, R. Zhu, M. Rabbat,
A. Yousefpour, C.-J. Wu, H. Zhan, P. Ustinov, H. Srinivas, et al. Papaya: Practical, private, and scalable
federated learning. Proceedings of Machine Learning
and Systems, 4:814–832, 2022.
Intel. Intel®Trust Domain Extensions (Intel®TDX),
June 2025. URL https://cdrdv2.intel.com
/v1/dl/getContent/690419. White Paper.
Kaggle. Gemma – a family of lightweight, state-of-theart open models from google, built from the same
research and technology used to create the gemini
models, 2025. URL https://www.kaggle.com
/models/google/gemma-3.
P. Kairouz, Z. Liu, and T. Steinke. The distributed
discrete gaussian mechanism for federated learning
with secure aggregation. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 5201–5212. PMLR,
2021.
D. Liu, E. Cohen, B. Ghazi, P. Kairouz, P. Kamath,
A. Knop, R. Kumar, P. Manurangsi, A. Sealfon, D. Yu,
and C. Zhang. Urania: Differentially Private Insights
into AI Use, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/ab
s/2506.04681.
9

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

Meta. Building private processing for AI tools on
WhatsApp. https://engineering.fb.com/2

025/04/29/security/whatsapp-private-p
rocessing-ai-tools, 2025.

Sumers, J. Mueller, W. McEachen, W. Mitchell,
S. Carter, J. Clark, J. Kaplan, and D. Ganguli. Clio:
Privacy-Preserving Insights into Real-World AI Use,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.1
3678.

NVIDIA. NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU Architecture,
2023. URL https://resources.nvidia.com

A. P. Team. Learning with privacy at scale. https://

/en-us-hopper-architecture/nvidia-h10
0-tensor-c.

machinelearning.apple.com/2017/12/06
/learning-with-privacy-at-scale.html,

D. Ongaro and J. Ousterhout. In search of an understandable consensus algorithm. In 2014 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 14), pages
305–319, Philadelphia, PA, June 2014. USENIX Association. ISBN 978-1-931971-10-2. URL https:

//www.usenix.org/conference/atc14/te
chnical-sessions/presentation/ongaro.
G. Play. Recorder - Apps on Play Store, 2025. URL

https://play.google.com/store/apps/d
etails?id=com.google.android.apps.re
corder.
Ramage, Daniel and Mazzocchi, Stefano. Federated
Analytics: Collaborative Data Science without Data
Collection, May 2020. URL https://research

.google/blog/federated-analytics-col
laborative-data-science-without-dat
a-collection/. Google AI Blog.
A. S. Research. Private cloud compute: A new frontier
for ai privacy in the cloud. https://security
.apple.com/blog/private-cloud-compute,
2024.
H. Srinivas, G. Cormode, M. Honarkhah, S. Lurye,
J. Hehir, L. He, G. Hong, A. Magdy, D. Huba,
K. Wang, et al. {PAPAYA} federated analytics stack:
Engineering privacy, scalability and practicality. In
22nd USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 25), pages 883–898,
2025.
Z. Sun, P. Kairouz, H. Sun, A. Gascon, and A. T. Suresh.
Private federated discovery of out-of-vocabulary
words for gboard. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.11607,
2024.
K. Talwar, S. Wang, A. McMillan, V. Feldman, P. Bansal,
B. Basile, A. Cahill, Y. S. Chan, M. Chatzidakis,
J. Chen, et al. Samplable anonymous aggregation
for private federated data analysis. In Proceedings
of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security, pages 2859–2873,
2024.
A. Tamkin, M. McCain, K. Handa, E. Durmus,
L. Lovitt, A. Rathi, S. Huang, A. Mountfield, J. Hong,
S. Ritchie, M. Stern, B. Clarke, L. Goldberg, T. R.

2017.

A. Access Policy
To illustrate the space of permissible access policies,
we begin with a policy that permits a differentially
private group-by aggregation to be run, along with
autotuning of its parameters.
pipelines {
# Each logical pipeline name maps to
# a LogicalPipelinePolicy .
" n a m e _ o f _ l o g i c a l _ p i p e l i n e _ p o l i c y ": {
# Each L o g i c a l P i p e l i n e P o l i c y
# consists of P i p e l i n e V a r i a n t P o l i c y
# instances .
instances {
transforms {
src_node_ids : [0 , 1]
dst_node_ids : [1 , 2]
# Application binary reference
# values .
application {
reference_v alues { ... }
}
# Application binary config
# specifying required privacy
# params for the DP group - by
# aggregation with autotuning .
c on f i g_ c on s t ra i nt s {
...
}
}
}
}
}

The config_constraints field for this serverside workload should include the desired DP parameters 𝜀, 𝛿 and specify that an upload can be used a
maximum of one time in either a DP algorithm that
computes DP quantiles or a DP algorithm that computes a group-by aggregation. The TEE binary that is
permitted to execute the permitted computations is indicated by the application’s reference_values.
The lists src_node_ids and dest_node_ids reflect the distributed fashion in which we execute the
DP computation: many leaf nodes (1) ingest the encrypted uploads (0), compute contribution-bounded
noiseless intermediate aggregates in parallel—sums
of slices of the input—then pass encrypted state to a
root node (2) that merges and noises the aggregates.
10

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

By listing multiple pipeline variants in the policy, as
below, we can decouple policy updates from rolling
out new processing pipeline binary versions.
pipelines {
# Each logical pipeline name maps to
# a L o g i c a l P i p e l i n e P o l i c y containing
# one or more P i p e l i n e V a r i a n t P o l i c i e s .
" n a m e _ o f _ l o g i c a l _ p i p e l i n e _ p o l i c y ": {
# P i p e l i n e V a r i a n t P o l i c y admitting
# binary v1
instances {
transforms {
...
}
}
# P i p e l i n e V a r i a n t P o l i c y admitting
# binary v2
instances {
transforms {
...
}
}
}
}

Refer to the file access_policy.proto in the
GitHub repository google-parfait/federated-compute
for more exposition on the policy structure.

B. Autotuning
B.1. Why Autotuning Requires DP Quantiles
Suppose that we replaced the DP quantile algorithm in
our autotuning system with a deterministic algorithm.
We will demonstrate that such a variant is vulnerable
to an attack that deduces which group a privacy unit
contributes to, even when the tuned parameters are
hidden from the attacker.
Consider the case where (a) the user’s query requests a summation of one value, with L_inf= 1 but
max_groups_contributed is not specified (b) Alice contributes to either the group “normal” or both
groups “normal” and “embarrassing.” Because of (a),
our system marks max_groups_contributed as the
sole parameter to tune. This means it will add noise
proportional to the 𝑘 = 83rd percentile of the number of groups that a privacy unit contributes to. If
the adversary mixes Alice’s (encrypted) input with 82
copies of “normal” privacy units and 17 copies of units
that contribute to both “normal” and “embarrassing”
then (b) implies that the number of groups Alice contributes to will be the 83rd percentile, which directly
reveals which of the two inputs she has.
If the adversary directly observes the 83rd percentile, they can deduce whether she has contributed
to “embarrassing” simply by mapping 2 to “yes” and
1 to “no.” If they do not, recall that the noise added

to the sums is scaled proportional to the choice of
max_groups_contributed; because the attacker
has control over the Alice’s peers, they can measure
the noise via subtraction of pre-noise values and apply a likelihood test to determine which of the two
distributions it was sampled from.
B.2. Mathematical Analysis of Autotuning
For simplicity, our analysis will make the assumption
that we are tuning one parameter; to generalize to
𝑔 > 1 parameters, we can divide failure probabilities
by 𝑔 and apply the union bound.
Let 𝑋 be the 𝑛 positive scalar values over which we
are computing the 𝑘-th percentile; if we are tuning
L_inf for example then the 𝑖-th scalar is the maximum contribution to any group that the 𝑖-th privacy
unit makes. Our autotuning process proceeds as follows:
1. For each element of 𝑋 , toss a coin with head-bias
𝑞 ≪ 1/2. Let 𝑆 denote the 𝑚 scalars whose coin
landed heads; note that 𝑚 ∼ Bin( 𝑛, 𝑞).
2. Feed 𝑆 into our 𝜀-DP quantile algorithm to estimate the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑆
3. Report the outcome of that algorithm as an estimate of the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑋 .
For any multiset 𝑇 , we will say that we have a “𝛾 approximation of the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑇 ” when its
index in (sorted) 𝑇 lies inside the interval 𝐺 𝛾 (𝑇 ) :=
−𝛾
𝑘+ 𝛾
· |𝑇 | , 100
· |𝑇 |], the indices of values within 𝛾 % of
[ 𝑘100
the 𝑘-th percentile. Our driving question is to find a
setting of 𝑞 such that the outcome 10-approximates the
𝑘-th percentile of 𝑋 .
Observe that there are two sources of error: the
sampling of 𝑆 and the DP algorithm. This appendix
has one section for each. First, we find the range of 𝑞
such that 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑆 5-approximates the 𝑘-th
percentile of 𝑋 , except with probability 𝛽 . Then we
find the range of 𝑞 such that the DP algorithm will
report a 5-approximation of the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑆,
except with probability 2 𝛽 . Putting these two parts
together with 𝛽 = 1/30 ensures that we have a range
of 𝑞 such that the outcome 10-approximates the 𝑘-th
percentile of 𝑋 , 90% of the time.
B.2.1. Sampling rate to ensure representativeness
Let 𝑎 be the number of elements in 𝑆 that are less than
the ( 𝑘 − 5)-th percentile of 𝑋 .
Let 𝑏 be the number of elements in 𝑆 that lie between
the ( 𝑘 − 5)-th and ( 𝑘 + 5)-th percentiles of 𝑋 .
Let 𝑐 be the number of elements in 𝑆 that are greater
11

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

than the ( 𝑘 + 5)-th percentile of 𝑋 .
𝑘
𝑘
| 𝑆 | and 𝑐 < 100−
If we could show 𝑎 < 100
100 | 𝑆 |, then
the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑆 approximates the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑋 : the first inequality implies that the 𝑘-th
percentile of 𝑆 is larger than the ( 𝑘 − 5)-th percentile
of 𝑋 and the second implies it is smaller than the
( 𝑘 + 5)-th percentile of 𝑋 .

Because | 𝑆 | = 𝑎 + 𝑏 + 𝑐, we can rewrite our desired
constraints:
𝑘
𝑎<

=

100
𝑘

100

|𝑆 |
( 𝑎 + 𝑏 + 𝑐)

100 − 𝑘
𝑘
𝑎<
( 𝑏 + 𝑐)
100
100
100 − 𝑘
𝑎 < 𝑏+𝑐

(1)

𝑘

and

100 − 𝑘

𝑎−

𝑘−5

100

𝑘−5

100

𝑛𝑞

𝑏 > (1 − 𝜓) ·
𝑐−

1
𝑛𝑞
10

95 − 𝑘
95 − 𝑘
𝑛𝑞 < 𝜓 ·
𝑛𝑞
100
100

are simultaneously true, except with probability




𝑘 − 5 1 95 − 𝑘
2
· 𝑛𝑞
,
,
≤ 5 exp −𝜓 · min
300 20 300
So to target a failure probability of 𝛽 , we should ensure


300
5
1
300
𝑞 ≥ 2 · max
, 20,
· ln .
𝑘
−
5
95
−
𝑘
𝛽
𝜓 𝑛

100 − 𝑘

100 − 𝑘
𝑎<
𝑘

𝑐 < 𝑎+𝑏

𝑛𝑞 < 𝜓 ·

Once we upper bound 𝜓, we will have our desired
result. We do so by combining (1) and (2) with the
concentration bounds. To ensure (1), it will suffice
𝑘
to show that an upper bound on 100−
𝑎 is less than a
𝑘
lower bound on 𝑏 + 𝑐:

100 − 𝑘
|𝑆 |
100
100 − 𝑘
=
( 𝑎 + 𝑏 + 𝑐)
100
𝑘
100 − 𝑘
𝑐<
( 𝑎 + 𝑏)
100
100
𝑐<

𝑘

A union bound implies that we can safely assume all
three of the inequalities

(2)

Observe that the marginal distributions are 𝑎 ∼
1
𝑘
−5
𝑛, 𝑞), 𝑏 ∼ Bin( 10
𝑛, 𝑞), and 𝑐 ∼ Bin( 95−
Bin( 𝑘100
100 𝑛, 𝑞).
We will use a concentration inequality and a union
bound to derive constraints on 𝑞 such that we can
derive (1) and (2).
Suppose 𝜂 is a binomial with mean 𝜇 . For any 𝜓 ∈
(0, 1), the multiplicative Chernoff bound5 implies the
two inequalities below:
ℙ [| 𝜂 − 𝜇 | ≥ 𝜓𝜇 ] ≤ 2 exp(−𝜓2 𝜇 /3)

𝑘

100

· 𝑛𝑞

−5
𝑘
𝑘
So it suffices for 100−
·(1+𝜓)· 𝑘100
·𝑛𝑞 < 105−
𝑘
100 ·(1−𝜓)· 𝑛𝑞
to imply (1):

100 − 𝑘

· (1 + 𝜓) ·

𝑘

𝑘−5

105 − 𝑘
· 𝑛𝑞 <
· (1 − 𝜓) · 𝑛𝑞
100
100
1+𝜓
𝑘 (105 − 𝑘)
<
1 − 𝜓 ( 𝑘 − 5) (100 − 𝑘)

To ensure (2), it will suffice to show that an upper
𝑘
𝑐 is less than a lower bound on 𝑎 + 𝑏:
bound on 100−
𝑘
𝑘

100 − 𝑘

5 It is also possible to use the additive Hoeffding bound, but recall
we target 𝑞 ≪ 1/2 in which case the multiplicative bound is tighter.

𝑘−5

105 − 𝑘
· (1 − 𝜓) · 𝑛𝑞
100

𝑏+𝑐 >

ℙ [𝜂 ≤ (1 − 𝜓) 𝜇 ] ≤ exp(−𝜓2 𝜇 /2)
We apply these tail bounds to the marginals of 𝑎, 𝑏, 𝑐:


𝑘−5
𝑘−5
ℙ 𝑎−
𝑛𝑞 ≥ 𝜓 ·
𝑛𝑞
100
100


 
𝑘−5
≤ 2 exp −𝜓2
𝑛𝑞 /3
100




 
1
1
ℙ 𝑏 ≤ (1 − 𝜓) ·
𝑛𝑞 ≤ exp −𝜓2
𝑛𝑞 /2
10
10


95 − 𝑘
95 − 𝑘
ℙ 𝑐−
𝑛𝑞 ≥ 𝜓 ·
𝑛𝑞
100
100


 
95 − 𝑘
≤ 2 exp −𝜓2
𝑛𝑞 /3
100

· (1 + 𝜓) ·

𝑘
𝑐<

100 − 𝑘

𝑎 + 𝑏 > (1 − 𝜓) ·

· (1 + 𝜓) ·
𝑘+5

100

95 − 𝑘
· 𝑛𝑞
100

· 𝑛𝑞

𝑘
𝑘
𝑘+5
·(1+ 𝜓)· 95−
So it suffices for 100−
𝑘
100 · 𝑛𝑞 < (1− 𝜓)· 100 · 𝑛𝑞
to imply (2):

𝑘

100 − 𝑘

· (1 + 𝜓) ·

95 − 𝑘
𝑘+5
· 𝑛𝑞 < (1 − 𝜓) ·
· 𝑛𝑞
100
100
1 + 𝜓 (100 − 𝑘) ( 𝑘 + 5)
<
1−𝜓
𝑘 (95 − 𝑘)

Hence, we should set 𝜓 such that


1+𝜓
𝑘 (105 − 𝑘)
(100 − 𝑘) ( 𝑘 + 5)
< min
,
1−𝜓
( 𝑘 − 5) (100 − 𝑘)
𝑘 (95 − 𝑘)
|
{z
}
𝑧

12

Toward provably private analytics and insights into GenAI use

This simplifies to the inequality 𝜓 <

𝑧−1
; in prac𝑧+1

tice, we search for this value numerically
B.2.2. Sampling rate to ensure accurate DP quantile estimation
We first find an integer 𝑚∗ such that when the sample size 𝑚 exceeds 𝑚∗ , our DP algorithm will 5approximate the 𝑘-th percentile of 𝑆 except with probability 𝛽 . Then we find a range of 𝑞 such that 𝑚 > 𝑚∗
except with probability 𝛽 .
Size of 𝑆 to ensure accurate DP quantile estimation We begin with a brief sketch of the quantilefinding algorithm. It implements a simple variant of
the AboveThreshold algorithm. The first idea is to
divide the non-negative reals into a grid, where the
grid points first follow linear growth then transition
to exponential growth. At each point on this grid, the
algorithm makes a noisy measurement of the number
of inputs that are to the left. The output is the first
grid point where this measurement exceeds a noisy
threshold.
A bit more precisely,
1. Initialize 𝑝 ← 0.1
2. Sample 𝜂 ∼ a Laplace distribution with scale 2/𝜀
3. While 𝑝 has not crossed the maximum representable value,
(a) Sample 𝜂 𝑝 ∼ a Laplace distribution with
scale 4/𝜀
(b) Let 𝑓𝑆 ( 𝑝) be the number of inputs that are
at most 𝑝
𝑘
(c) If 𝑓𝑆 ( 𝑝) + 𝜂 𝑝 ≥ 100
· 𝑚 + 𝜂, break
(d) Else, 𝑝 ← max( 𝑝 + 0.1, 𝑝 · 1.01)

approximation of a value inside of 𝐺5 ( 𝑆). The error of
approximation is either an additive 0.1 or a relative
≤ 1%.
Sampling rate to ensure minimum size of 𝑆 Here,
we choose 𝑞 such that the random variable | 𝑆 | is above
the requisite threshold 𝑚∗ except with probability 𝛽 .
If we want ℙ [| 𝑆 | ≤ 𝑚∗ ] ≤ 𝛽 and the multiplicative Chernoff bound implies ℙ [| 𝑆 | ≤ (1 − 𝜓) 𝑛𝑞] ≤
exp(−𝜓2 𝑛𝑞/2), it will suffice to show
(a) ℙ [| 𝑆 | ≤ 𝑚∗ ] ≤ ℙ [| 𝑆 | ≤ (1 − 𝜓) 𝑛𝑞] and
(b) exp(−𝜓2 𝑛𝑞/2) ≤ 𝛽 .
The constraint (a) is equivalent to 𝑚∗ ≤ (1 − 𝜓) 𝑛𝑞
∗
which is the same as 𝑞 ≥ (1−𝑚𝜓 ) 𝑛 . Meanwhile, constraint (b) is equivalent to 𝑞 ≥ 2 ln(1/ 𝛽 )/𝑛𝜓2 . Hence,
it suffices for


2

𝑞 ≥ max

𝑚∗
𝛽 (1 − 𝜓) 𝑛

1
ln ,
2

𝑛𝜓



It remains to find 𝜓 that minimizes the above. The
first function is a decreasing function of 𝜓 while the
former is an increasing function, which means the
minimum of the maximum is achieved where they
intersect. In turn, we just need to solve the quadratic
𝜓2 = (1 − 𝜓)

2
𝑚∗

ln(1/ 𝛽 ) ; in practice, we search for

this value numerically.

4. Return 𝑝
Refer to the DPQuantileAggregator class in our
library for the complete code.
Assuming the maximum is 264 , the number of
Laplace random variables is ≤ 1 + 10 + 64 log1.01 2 <
4470.
Except with probability 𝛽 , all Laplace random variables have magnitude < 4𝜀 ln 4470
. This means the algo𝛽
𝑘
rithm will never halt on some 𝑝 where 100
· 𝑚 − 𝑓𝑆 ( 𝑝) >
8
4470
ln 𝛽 . By the same logic, it will never continue once
𝜀
𝑘
it has found some 𝑝 where 𝑓𝑆 ( 𝑝) − 100
· 𝑚 > 8𝜀 ln 4470
.
𝛽
The upshot is that when 𝑚 ≥ 𝑚∗ :=

160
𝜀

ln

4470

,

𝛽

𝛽 bounds the probability that the returned 𝑝 is not an
13

