Bitcoin Smart Accounts: Trust-Minimized
Native Bitcoin DeFi Infrastructure
Cian Lalor
Lombard Finance

Matthew Marshall
Lombard Finance

Antonio Russo
Lombard Finance

arXiv:2603.26293v1 [cs.CR] 27 Mar 2026

March 30, 2026

Abstract
Bitcoin’s limited programmability and transaction throughput have historically prevented
native Bitcoin from participating in decentralized finance (DeFi) applications. Existing solutions
depend on honest-majority thresholds, or centralized custodial entities that introduce significant
trust requirements. This paper introduces Bitcoin Smart Accounts (BSA), a novel protocol that
enables native Bitcoin to access DeFi through trust-minimized infrastructure while maintaining
self-custody of funds.
BSA achieves this through a combination of emulated Bitcoin covenants using Partially
Signed Bitcoin Transactions (PSBTs) and Taproot scripts, a Trusted Execution Environment
(TEE)-based arbitration system, and destination chain smart contracts that enable DeFi platforms to accept self-custodial Bitcoin as collateral without necessitating protocol-level modifications. The setup leverages liquidity secured by the Lombard Security Consortium which
provides a twofold advantage: for a DeFi protocol, liquidators rely on fungible assets with deep
liquidity to quickly exit positions, while for a depositor, the general trust assumptions of honest
majority (m-of-n) are reduced to existential honesty (1-of-k).
We present the complete protocol design, including the Bitcoin architecture, the TEE-based
arbitration mechanism, and the Smart Account Registry for protocol management. We provide
a security analysis that demonstrates the correctness, safety, and availability properties under
our trust model. Our design enables native Bitcoin to serve as collateral in lending markets and
other DeFi protocols without requiring users to relinquish custody of funds.
Keywords: Bitcoin, Decentralized Finance, Trust-Minimized Bridges, Emulated Covenants,
Trusted Execution Environments, Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions, Taproot, Nitro Enclaves

1

Introduction

Bitcoin [1] has emerged as the dominant cryptocurrency by market capitalization, with more than
$1 trillion in value locked in the network. However, Bitcoin’s conservative design philosophy, which
prioritizes security and decentralization, has resulted in limited transaction throughput and programmability. These constraints have prevented Bitcoin from participating in the rapidly growing
decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem, where programmable smart contracts enable lending, borrowing, trading, and other financial primitives.

1.1

The Problem

To access DeFi functionality, Bitcoin holders have historically faced a fundamental trade-off: either trust a custodial service to hold their Bitcoin to issue fungible tokens, or use bridges that
1

require trusting an honest majority of operators (m-of-n threshold schemes). Both approaches
introduce significant risk that undermines Bitcoin’s core value proposition of self-custody and trust
minimization.
Observed limitations of existing bridges and Bitcoin Layer 2 solutions include:
• Custodial Risk: Most wrapped Bitcoin solutions require users to deposit funds into centralized custody, creating single points of trust and failure, introducing excessive counterparty
risk.
• Trust Assumptions: Threshold signature schemes require trusting that a majority of signers
remain honest, which highlights an attack vector for adversarial actors. Current implementations regularly rely on complex key management (adding or removing signers, key rotation).
• Novel Cryptography: Recent advances in Bitcoin bridging solutions are based on succinct
knowledge proofs implemented over garbled circuits [2]. These cryptographic primitives are
novel, and complex to audit and guarantee correctness.
• Limited Programmability: Bitcoin’s intentionally limited scripting language, and present
lack of native covenant support, prevent the enforcement of complex spending conditions
directly on the Bitcoin network.
• Integration Challenges: Existing solutions often create friction for DeFi protocols, involving liquidity delays and bespoke infrastructure for the Bitcoin network, particularly around
liquidation mechanisms that are critical for lending markets, e.g., Babylon Bitcoin Vaults [2].

1.2

Our Contribution

This paper introduces Bitcoin Smart Accounts (BSA), a protocol built using existing and wellestablished primitives that enables native Bitcoin to access DeFi applications while maintaining
self-custody and minimizing trust assumptions. Our contributions include:
1. Trust-Minimized Security Model: We reduce the depositor’s (the user bridging Bitcoin)
trust assumptions from an honest majority (m-of-n) to existential honesty (1-of-k), where a
depositor requires a minimum of only one other honest party in the protocol to be safe.
2. TEE-Based Arbitration Oracle: We introduce a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)based arbitration system (Sec. 5) that verifies cross-chain events and resolves disputes. The
TEE ensures code integrity and provides cryptographic attestations of correct execution,
enabling the arbitration logic to be executed by any third party.
3. Emulated Covenant Architecture: We design a Bitcoin script architecture using Taproot addresses [3] and Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions (PSBTs) to emulate covenant-like
functionality, i.e., transaction constraints enforced with a committee, without requiring Bitcoin consensus changes—an approach also used in Lightning Network [4] and BitVM [5]. This
enables complex, multi-party spending conditions to be enforced without relying on a trusted
third party.
4. DeFi-Native Integration: We design the Smart Account Registry, a smart contract that
enables seamless integration with existing DeFi protocols, supporting standard liquidation
mechanisms without creating impediments for liquidators or lending protocols by leveraging
existing on-chain liquidity through the use of Lombard’s existing Security Consortium (a
2

collection of validators requiring 2/3 consensus—see footnote marker * on Table. 1 for further
detail).
5. Security Analysis: We provide security evaluations that demonstrate the safety, liveness,
and integrity properties under our trust model (Sec. 6).

1.3

BSA Comparison to Existing Bridging Solutions

Trustless approaches such as BitVM [5] achieve the strongest theoretical security guarantees by
verifying arbitrary computations on Bitcoin through fraud proofs. However, they introduce significant operational complexity, including multi-round interactive protocols, large on-chain footprints,
and requirements for DeFi applications to integrate directly with the Bitcoin network, making
them impractical for general-purpose DeFi use cases today. BSA takes a pragmatic approach:
by combining emulated covenants with TEE-based arbitration, it achieves comparable security to
fully trustless vaults, specifically 1-of-k existential honesty and self-custody, while being deployable
today with significantly lower operational complexity and native compatibility with existing DeFi
infrastructure.
Below, we provide a table 1 to compare the key properties of our contribution with related
works.
Property

Bitcoin Smart
Accounts

Multisig
Bridge

BitVM Bridge

Trust Model
Self-Custody
Native DeFi
support (e.g.,
liquidations)

1-of-k
Yes
Yes, with
programmable
perimeter†

m-of-n*
No
Yes

Decentralized
withdrawal of
native BTC by
depositor
Required Operators
to steal BTC from
depositor
Withdrawal of
native BTC by
non-depositor

Yes, assumes
1-of-(k + 1)‡
honest.

Yes, assumes
m-of-n honest.

k-of-k offline
AOs and
dishonest TO‡
Indirect via TO
rebalance

m-of-n operators

1-of-k
Yes
No, requires
DeFi applications
to integrate with
Bitcoin network
Yes, assumes
No. Requires
1-of-k honest.
permissions from
centralized
authority.
k-of-k operators
1 single operator

Yes

Indirect via
Operator

Centralized
Issuer (wrapped
BTC)
1-of-1
No
Yes

Yes

Table 1: Comparison of Bitcoin Smart Accounts with related work.
* Lombard’s Security Consortium (the TO), a multisig bridge, includes additional safeguards to reduce the trust
model further, such as the integration of Cubist’s Bascule [6] and Chainlink oracles [7] to provide a secondary
validation for all fund movements during normal operation.
†The BSA enables seamless liquidations without liquidator- or DeFi- customizations. For more information, see
section 4.3.
‡An AO cannot be dishonest, only offline. When considering attack scenarios, we view the protocol to have
1-of-(k + 1) security, given that the protocol consists of k AOs and a single TO. This is explained in more detail in
section 6.2.

3

1.4

Paper Organization

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents our system model, assumptions, and security goals. Section 3 details the complete protocol design, including the Bitcoin
script architecture, PSBT mechanisms, and state transitions. Section 4 covers the Smart Account
Registry and the components on the destination chain. Section 5 describes the Arbitration Oracle
TEE implementation. Section 6 provides security analysis. Section 7 discusses limitations and
future work. Section 8 concludes. The appendices outline additional key implementation details.

2

System Model and Security Goals

2.1

Network Model

We assume that Bitcoin and the destination chain (e.g., Ethereum) operate as robust public ledgers
with persistence and high-availability properties. We make standard cryptographic assumptions:
participants are computationally bounded, and standardized hash functions, signatures, and encryption schemes are utilized.

2.2

Participants

The BSA protocol involves the following participants:
• Depositor (D): A user who wants to utilize their native Bitcoin within DeFi applications.
The depositor maintains control of their Bitcoin and destination chain private keys and participates in the Protocol User Setup Ceremony.
• Token Operator (T O): A single acting party responsible for minting BTC.b1 and executing
Bitcoin rebalances e.g., for DeFi liquidations. In practice, this is Lombard’s existing Security Consortium, consisting of the existing set of validators that secures Lombard through
2/3 majority consensus. This actor can be viewed as the canonical operator for protocol
instantiation: a requirement for an instance of the BSA to exist.
• Arbitration Oracles (AO): A software module that verifies protocol states and resolves
disputes. A set of k arbitration oracles may exist, and the depositor requires at least one
honest arbitration oracle to avoid trusting only the TO. The k AOs are interchangeable for a
given protocol instance: any correct AO (see below Def. 2.1) included in the depositor’s BSA
instance setup can resolve its disputes.

2.3

Failure Model

The depositor and the Token Operator are Byzantine parties assumed to be selfish and rational,
i.e. they will do anything which allows them to gain an economic advantage, and they do not harm
themselves.
The Arbitration Oracle may fail due to lack of availability, i.e. it may not fulfill time-sensitive
duties. However, it cannot act outside the protocol’s design constraints or produce inaccurate
results. Multiple independent entities can play the Arbitration Oracle role in the same protocol
instance in such a way that the Arbitration Oracle duties are fulfilled as long as at least one performs
within the protocol time constraints.
1

BTC.b is a Bitcoin derivative minted by the Lombard Security Consortium, which is backed one-to-one by native
Bitcoin.

4

Definition 2.1 (AO Correctness). An Arbitration Oracle is correct if it is online and operational,
i.e., it is available to verify protocol states and sign transactions resolving disputes in favor of the
depositor, according to the deterministic dispute resolution logic as outlined in Sec. 5.4.
An AO operator (entity running the AO software) may be malicious, but due to the TEEenforced code integrity (Sec. 6.5) and emulated covenant constraints (Sec. 3.4), the most severe
adversarial action available to a malicious AO operator is to take the AO offline. A malicious
AO operator cannot sign incorrect transactions or redirect funds to unauthorized addresses, as all
spending paths are constrained by pre-signed PSBTs to commit to specific output addresses.
Whenever a party behaves according to the protocol rules, it is said to be correct. For the AO,
correctness is equivalent to availability, as a malicious AO operator cannot violate protocol rules
due to TEE and covenant constraints.

2.4

Security Goals

We define the security properties of the protocol according to the perspective of each participating
party.
Definition 2.2 (Protocol Liveness). A protocol is said to have liveness if funds cannot be prevented
from exiting the protocol after they are transferred to the address VA, as defined in Sec. 3.3.1.
Definition 2.3 (Depositor Safety). A protocol instance is Depositor Safe if there exists a finite
and time bounded list of operations that allows a correct depositor to regain full and unilateral
control of its funds on the Bitcoin blockchain.
Definition 2.4 (Token Operator Safety). A protocol instance is Token Operator Safe if in any
protocol state where the corresponding token collateralized by Bitcoin deposits is minted on the
destination chain, there exists a finite and time-bounded list of operations that makes the Token
Operator gain full and unilateral control of funds on the Bitcoin blockchain when collateral tokens
exit the protocol perimeter as defined in Sec. 4.2.2.
Definition 2.5 (Protocol Safety). A protocol instance is Protocol Safe if and only if both Depositor
Safety 2.3 and Token Operator Safety 2.4 hold.
Given the Failure Model described in section 2.3, the general security goal of this work is
to guarantee Protocol Safety 2.5 under the assumption that at least 1-of-k entities playing the
Arbitration Oracle role are correct.
As a consequence, if the TO is malicious, the depositor must trust that at least 1-of-k AOs
remain honest. This is a significant improvement over traditional m-of-n threshold schemes.
The protocol description following in the next section will make apparent that from the depositor’s point of view, for k AOs, the 1-of-k requirement reduces to 1-of-(k + 1) since the honest
behavior of the TO does not require any intervention of AO.

3

Bitcoin Architecture

3.1

Overview

The BSA protocol enables a depositor to lock native Bitcoin in a self-custodial vault while receiving
BTC.b receipt tokens on a destination chain for use in DeFi applications. The protocol uses four
Taproot script addresses with specific spending conditions, enforced through pre-signed PSBTs
exchanged during the Protocol User Setup Ceremony (Sec. 3.4.1).
5

3.2

Protocol Parameters

The BSA protocol uses the following time lock parameters:
• T1 : The relative time lock period during which the TO can challenge a withdrawal, or unbonding, request. After T1 expires without challenge by the TO, the depositor can unilaterally
claim funds.
• T2 : The relative time lock period for any AO to resolve a state in favor of the depositor. After
expiration, the funds can be pulled by the TO.
• T3 : The relative time lock period for any core protocol modifications to take effect (e.g.,
upgrading the destination chain smart contracts), which may impact the security of the
protocol. Hence, all security guarantees (see Sec. 6.3) of the protocol are upheld until T3 .
where the time lock relation:
T3 > (T1 + T2 )

(1)

ensures correctness. The depositor and an AO can verify this relation before depositing Bitcoin.

3.3

Bitcoin Script Architecture

We design four Taproot script addresses [3] that form the core architecture on the Bitcoin blockchain.
Taproot scripts were chosen for their reduced transaction size and fees, and ability to enable smart
contract-like spending logic.
Every user has their own suite of unique script addresses, directly tied to both their destination chain address and Bitcoin network public key. The usage of PSBTs exchanged by the parties
allows funds to be directed between the addresses of the protocol in a verifiable manner. Verifiability is achieved through a public code repository which outlines formulae for address derivation.
Appendix A provides more details on the topic.
3.3.1

Script Addresses

The four Taproot script addresses represent states within the protocol. Funds move through these
addresses according to the protocol rules. A user’s deposit may contain multiple UTXOs, which
can be held at any of a user’s set of unique addresses while the protocol is live. An instance of the
protocol is considered to be live if these UTXOs are locked to any one of the four addresses:
1. Vault Address (VA): a 2-of-2 multisig between a single depositor and the TO. This is
where the depositor initially locks their Bitcoin.
2. Unbond Timelock Address (UTA): a 2-of-2 multisig between a single depositor and TO,
with an additional 1-of-1 spending path for the depositor after the timelock T1 expires.
3. Unbond Challenge Address (UCA): a 2-of-2 multisig between a single depositor and a
set of AOs, with an additional 1-of-1 spending path for the TO after timelock T2 expires.
4. Rebalance Challenge Address (RCA): a 2-of-2 multisig between a single depositor and
a set of AOs, with an additional 1-of-1 spending path for the TO after timelock T2 expires.

6

1. user deposited UTXOs

5. Rebalance Request

2a. Unbond

Vault Address

Rebalance
Challenge
Address

Unbond
Timelock
Address

7. Cooperative
Unbond
6a. AO resolve

6b.
T2 expiry

2b. T1 expiry
3. Unbond
Challenge

Depositor
4a. AO resolve

Token
Operator

4b. T2 expiry

Unbond
Challenge
Address

Figure 1: State transition diagram showing the vault unbond paths. We use boxes to represent
addresses with spending paths by two or more members, and circles to represent addresses controlled
by an individual actor. Terms in diagram reference state transitions as enumerated in section 3.5.
Executors of state transitions can be seen in section 3.4.1. Dotted lines reference 2-of-2 spending
paths, solid lines reference 1-of-1 spending paths.
In order to map transactions to corresponding state transitions, each taproot address has its
internal key tweaked by an address-specific label. In this way, each of the listed Bitcoin addresses
is unique with respect to an instance of the protocol.
The internal key of all Taproot addresses is a Nothing Up My Sleeves (NUMS) key, according
to BIP-0341 [3]. See Appendix A for more information.

3.4

PSBT-Based Covenant Emulation

Bitcoin Script does not natively support covenants (constraints on transaction outputs). Native
covenant support would require opcodes such as OP CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY [8] that enable scripts
to inspect and constrain transaction outputs. We emulate covenant functionality by combining
multi-signature spending constraints with pre-signed transactions that commit to specific outputs.
During Protocol User Setup Ceremony (Sec. 3.4.1), the TO, AO, and depositor exchange a set
of PSBTs. These PSBTs commit to specific spending paths and output addresses, effectively
constraining future transaction outputs. The key insight is that by pre-signing transactions with
fixed outputs, we can enforce spending conditions that would otherwise require native covenant
support. This approach builds upon the techniques used by other protocols, e.g., the Lightning
Network [4].
A covenant emulation is established between two parties: the party who creates and provides a
7

PSBT (the creator ), which pre-commits transaction outputs to specific destination addresses, and
the party who receives the PSBT (the executor ), who can sign and execute the transaction using
the inputs and outputs specified in the PSBT received by the creator.
In a valid protocol instance, all parties have signed and provided the expected PSBTs. Addresses
in PSBT outputs commit to the expected spending scripts.
3.4.1

Protocol User Setup Ceremony

Bitcoin’s UTXO model enables precise control over which specific UTXOs are spent. For each
UTXO deposited into the VA, the following set of PSBTs are created and exchanged for the
Protocol User Setup Ceremony to start a valid protocol instance:
1. The depositor receives a PSBT from the TO enabling them to initiate an unbonding request
(moving funds from VA to UTA) unilaterally.
2. The TO receives PSBTs from the depositor, enabling them to unilaterally:
(a) Challenge depositor unbonding requests (moving funds from UTA to UCA).
(b) Initiate rebalancing requests (moving funds from VA to RCA).
3. The AO receives PSBTs from the depositor enabling them to unilaterally resolve:
(a) Challenged unbonding requests in favor of the depositor (moving funds from UCA to
Dep).
(b) Rebalance requests in favor of the depositor (moving funds from RCA to Dep).
The number of PSBTs required from the depositor can be reduced through optimization techniques, such as having the TO provide PSBTs for certain spending paths, though this extends trust
assumptions. For a complete overview of transactions, please refer to the table in Appendix B.
3.4.2

Dynamic PSBT Updates

While the initial PSBT exchange occurs during protocol setup, additional PSBTs can be added
to the protocol while it is live to optimize workflow and enable new functionalities, such as a
fast unbond from the Vault in case the TO cooperates and the depositor behaves correctly (see
Cooperative Unbond below).

3.5

State Transitions

The protocol supports the following state transitions:
1. Deposit: Depositor sends Bitcoin to VA. TO observes the deposit, and if protocol is considered valid according to section 3.4, mints the corresponding BTC.b on the destination
chain.
2. Unbond Request: The depositor burns BTC.b on the destination chain and then (a) initiates an unbonding transaction from VA to UTA, and if the TO does not challenge, then (b)
after time lock T1 expires, the depositor pulls the funds from UTA.
3. Unbond Challenge: If TO observes an unbonding request but no corresponding burn event,
TO challenges by moving funds from UTA to UCA.
8

0. Depositor shares intended UTXOs to fund VA with TO

Identify

1a. TO signs: VA→UTA
1b. Dep signs: VA→RCA, UTA→UCA, RCA→Dep, UCA→Dep

Sign

2a. TO verifies: VA→RCA, UTA→UCA
2b. TO posts on SAR: VA→UTA, UCA→Dep, RCA→Dep

TO Verify
& Store

3. Dep verifies on SAR: VA→UTA, UCA→Dep, RCA→Dep

Dep. Verify

4. Depositor transfers BTC to VA

Deposit

5. TO mints BTC.b after 6 confirmations on Bitcoin network

Mint

Figure 2: Protocol User Setup Ceremony. PSBTs are exchanged and signed, posted to the SAR
(Sec. 4), and independently verified before the depositor funds the Vault Address and the TO mints
BTC.b at the corresponding destination address.
4. Unbond Challenge Resolution: AO verifies the destination chain state and either: (a)
resolves the dispute in favor of the depositor, moving funds from UCA to the depositor’s
address, or (b) chooses inaction, effectively resolving the dispute in favor of the TO, enabling
the TO to pull funds from UCA after T2 .
5. Rebalance Request: TO observes an under-collateralized position and triggers a rebalance
event on the destination chain, moving funds from VA to RCA.
6. Rebalance Finalization: AO verifies the destination chain state and either: (a) resolves the
rebalance request in favor of the depositor, moving funds from RCA to the depositor’s address,
or (b) chooses inaction, effectively finalizing the rebalance in favor of the TO, enabling the
TO to pull funds from RCA after T2 .
7. Cooperative Unbond: this state transition is not strictly necessary for protocol functionality, and is introduced only to improve user experience. If a user requests the TO to verify
that they may legitimately unbond (i.e., have already burnt BTC.b), the TO will sign an
additional PSBT enabling a spending path from the vault directly to the depositor’s return
address, circumventing the required time lock for manual unbonds.
Note: There is no further reference to Cooperative Unbond in this paper as it does not impact
participants’ trust or protocol security.
As outlined in section 3.3.1, a depositor’s instance of the protocol contains four unique Bitcoin
addresses. A depositor can deposit multiple UTXOs to an instance of the BSA, effectively splitting
funds across UTXOs which can move independently across protocol states. Splitting funds is
beneficial for rebalance and unbond mechanisms, e.g., enabling partial liquidations (see Sec. 3.6.2).
9

Bitcoin

unfair
challenge

AO
resolve

Setup

BTC in VA

VA→UTA

UTA→UCA

UCA→Dep

Dep

Dep

Dep

TO

AO

t5

t6

t7

6 confs
t0

Dest.

t1

t2

t3

t4

TO

Dep

Dep

BTC.b minted

DeFi

Burn BTC.b

Figure 3: Protocol lifecycle timeline: onboarding through to offboarding with an illegitimate challenge.

3.6

Rebalance Models

When the TO is honest, the Rebalance Request is a reactionary state transition triggered by the TO
whenever an arbitrary amount of BTC.b tokens exits the protocol perimeter as defined in Sec. 4.2.2.
Given this amount may be arbitrary, it will likely not correspond to the specific UTXO amounts
locked in the VA for a given user’s instance of the BSA.
To overcome this misalignment, we propose two rebalancing models to balance user experience
and protocol flexibility.
Note: When the TO is dishonest, this state transition will be corrected by an AO (see Sec. 6.1).
3.6.1

Model 1: Collaborative Rebalancing

A user deposits a single UTXO in the VA. When a rebalance is required, the TO requests a new set
of PSBTs from the depositor within a time window, enabling new protocol states that reflect the
amount to be rebalanced from the original deposit and the remaining amount. If the depositor fails
to sign within the agreed-upon time window, the TO rebalances the full amount of the deposited
UTXO to the RCA.
3.6.2

Model 2: UTXO-Based Rebalancing

A user transfers multiple UTXOs to the same VA, and a corresponding amount of tokens are
minted to the destination address. The number of UTXOs determines the granularity of rebalancing. When a rebalance occurs, the TO moves sufficient UTXOs from VA to RCA to cover the
imbalance. As PSBTs, signed during the Protocol User Setup Ceremony, commit to amounts in
deposited UTXOs, it is not feasible to partially liquidate any whole UTXOs.
Importantly, in both models, for any over-seized amount, the depositors’ DeFi position(s) remains active. The only effective change is that part of the underlying collateral backing said
position is transferred from the depositor’s self-custodial BSA vault to the LSC’s general reserves:
any amount of over-seized collateral does not impact the fungibility of the corresponding on-chain
BTC.b. Any amount remaining in the VA is unchanged, and still fully collateralizes a DeFi position
as before a rebalance request. Consequently, when the depositor wishes to unbond they need to
claim any over-seized amount from the TO in the event the required rebalance does not match the
user’s exact deposited amounts.

10

3.7

Fee Management

In the BSA protocol, without proper fee management, UTXOs moving through state transitions
would ”consume themselves” to pay for transaction costs. However, as PSBTs are pre-signed during
the Protocol User Setup Ceremony, and since these signatures commit to both inputs and outputs,
fees cannot be updated if network conditions change and the preset fees become insufficient. This
introduces a problem: if a pre-signed transaction’s fee becomes too low relative to current network
conditions, the UTXO could become stuck and the protocol would not progress.
To prevent the protocol from being unable to execute a state transition, we use a combination
of Anchor Outputs [9] and Child-Pays-For-Parent (CPFP) transactions [10], along with SigHash
flags [3].
Both the mechanisms outlined below in the remainder of this section allow the protocol to avoid
committing to unnecessarily high fees during the Protocol User Setup Ceremony, while ensuring
transactions can always be executed and confirmed, independent of network conditions.
3.7.1

Anchor and CPFP Transactions

For all state transitions involving a covenant emulation between the TO and the depositor, the
creator includes an additional anchor output which the executor can spend unilaterally.
If a pre-signed transaction tx0 is broadcast but not confirmed due to insufficient fees (f0 <
frequired ), the executor can construct a CPFP transaction txanchor that spends both the anchor
output from the unconfirmed tx0 and an additional UTXO controlled by the executor. By setting
the fee of txanchor such that fanchor ≥ frequired + f˜required − f0 , where f˜required is the additional
required fee for txanchor , the total effective fee for tx0 becomes,
ftotal = f0 + fanchor ≥ frequired + f˜required ,

(2)

ensuring that tx0 is confirmed.
3.7.2

Sighash Additional UTXO

For AO-invoked transitions where the AO does not commit to future protocol state, we adopt transaction signatures that specify the flag SIGHASH ANYONECANPAY | SIGHASH ALL instead of adding
Anchor outputs to reduce protocol costs. These flags are set during the Protocol User Setup Ceremony when the depositor signs the PSBT for the AO’s resolutions. This flag enables any entity,
e.g. the AO, to add an additional UTXO as an input, which can be used to pay higher fees during
network congestion.
If a pre-signed transaction tx0 is broadcast but not confirmed due to insufficient fees (f0 <
frequired ), the executor can add an additional input as a fee f1 , to tx0 ensuring that ftotal =
f0 + f1 ≥ frequired .

4

Smart Account Registry

4.1

Overview

The Smart Account Registry (SAR) is a smart contract deployed on the destination chain (e.g.
Ethereum) that serves as the central coordination point for the protocol. The SAR is responsible
for:

11

• Maintaining a public registry of deposit UTXOs and protocol parameters. This includes a
status for every deposited UTXO, used by the AO to determine the correct resolution of any
dispute (Sec. 5.4).
• Defining the perimeter (Sec. 4.2.2) and triggering events when depositor imbalances are
detected, legitimizing Bitcoin rebalancing (Sec.4.2.1).
• Defining the rebalancing order of UTXOs, set by the depositor, described in section 4.2.3.
• Storing of pre-signed PSBTs for data availability, ensuring they cannot be corrupted or modified after protocol setup
• Storing authorized AO software versions with corresponding expiry timestamps, signed by
the TO, (Sec.5.6).

4.2

Rebalance

A rebalance is the process when tokens minted on the destination chain against BTC held in
an instance of the BSA exit the perimeter (as defined in Sec. 4.2.2) requiring the native Bitcoin
acting as collateral to be transferred to the Lombard Security Consortium’s general reserves. The
token minted on the destination chain can be burnt and redeemed for native BTC from these
general reserves after exiting the perimeter, while funds held in the BSA can only be transferred to
predefined states as outlined in the Protocol User Setup Ceremony (Sec. 3.4.1). As redemptions are
resolved using BTC from the general reserve, the rebalance mechanism is used to pull Bitcoin from
BSA instances into the general reserves in the event said instance of the BSA is undercollateralized,
rectifying any depositor imbalance.
4.2.1

Rebalance Mechanism

For the state transition Rebalance Request on the Bitcoin network to be legitimate, it must be
preceded by a rebalance event on the destination chain, which is a result of a user imbalance. An
imbalance occurs when the sum of initially deposited UTXOs D is greater than the sum of the
user’s balances across allPDeFi platforms and their personal address.
Formally, let Bdefi = ki=1 bi denote the aggregate balance across k DeFi platforms, and Bpersonal
denote the personal address balance, we let the total,
Btotal = Bdefi + Bpersonal

(3)

and an imbalance is detected when,
Btotal < D

(4)

When an imbalance is detected, the TO can then submit a transaction to the Smart Account
Registry to mark the depositor as requiring rebalancing, emitting an event from the smart contract.
This event allows the TO to initiate a legitimate rebalance request for the depositor’s underlying
Bitcoin without the risk of AO intervention.

12

4.2.2

Perimeter Definition

The perimeter is defined as an additional set of smart contracts registered on the SAR, called
Adapters, which collectively track the value of Btotal . These adapters enable the efficient querying
of Btotal for each user. This design choice was motivated to help both facilitate integration with
DeFi protocols and allow BTC.b to be simultaneously backed by Bitcoin in BSA protocol and the
TO’s general reserves, without redemption risk to any BTC.b holder.
Adapter management follows a conservative security model: adding new adapters (integrating
a new DeFi protocol) is effective immediately, as adapters only return positive or zero balances,
posing no risk to depositors. However, removing or replacing an adapter requires adherence to time
lock T3 , allowing depositors sufficient time to manage their DeFi positions in the event they are
affected.
4.2.3

UTXO Rebalance Ordering

Every user address has an ordered set of UTXO outputs, O = [o1 , . . . , on ], where each oi ∈ O is
an active deposit on the SAR for any i. Users can customize the rebalance ordering by defining a
permutation function π : [n] → [n], where [n] = (1, . . . , n), mapping initial output indices to the
desired rebalance order, returning a sequence L = [oπ(1) , oπ(2) , . . . , oπ(n) ] where L[1] is rebalanced
first.

4.3

Rebalancing Process

When a rebalance is detected, as defined in section 4.2.1, the TO initiates the process of rebalancing,
sending from either VA → RCA, or UTA → UCA if a depositor’s illegitimate unbond request was
confirmed on the Bitcoin network. The rebalancing takes at most T2 to complete, after which the
TO can pull the funds into Lombard’s general reserves.
For the sake of clarity, we stress that the derivative token BTC.b, issued by the TO (Security
Consortium)2 , is backed by both BTC held in Lombard’s general reserves and BSA instances.
Example 4.1 (Liquidation on a Lending Protocol). Suppose a liquidation occurs on a lending protocol from an unhealthy position that uses BTC held in a BSA instance as collateral. A liquidator
repays the user’s bad debt (borrowed asset) to the lending platform, and as a result, acquires the
collateral for this position, BTC.b, backed by native BTC from a user’s BSA instance3 . This causes
the user’s BSA to become imbalanced (see Sec. 4.2.1) as their BTC.b has exited the perimeter.
After receiving BTC.b from a liquidation, the liquidator has two options: (1) swap or sell the
BTC.b on a decentralized exchange (DEX), or (2) redeem the BTC.b one-to-one for native Bitcoin
from Lombard’s general reserve.
In the second case, the redemption time will vary based on the proportion of liquidity immediately available in Lombard’s general reserves. The longest time this can take is when Lombard’s
general reserve contains no Bitcoin. The redemption will then be completed within at most T2 + ω,
where ω is the (nominal) time required for the TO to execute the transaction to pull the funds into
its general reserves and transfer them to the liquidator’s specified Bitcoin address. The address
2

Lombard’s Security Consortium’s general reserves operate as a permissionless bridge: depositors generate a unique
deterministic Bitcoin deposit address using a set of parameters including destination chain and address, and BTC.b
is minted on the corresponding chain and address.
3
In practice, a subset of DeFi platforms will rely on third-party oracles to track the reserves of BTC.b, ensuring
that collateral is tracked regardless of whether funds are held in individual BSA instances or in Lombard’s general
reserve. In this scenario, the reserve oracles track and attest that addresses for every instance of the BSA are included
in this list, which a depositor can verify before depositing BTC.

13

is provided as an input parameter by the liquidator4 (required for a standard redemption) when
calling the redeem function on the BTC.b contract.
UTXOs are rebalanced according to rebalancing order L (as described in Sec. 4.2.3) to cover
the amount of imbalance ∆ = D − (Bdefi + Bpersonal ). The minimal set of UTXOs from L needed to
cover ∆ is selected for rebalance, with the remaining UTXOs unaffected. As mentioned in section
3.6.2, as PSBTs commit to set amounts, in the event a user’s deposited UTXO amounts cannot
exactly cover the required rebalance, an over-seizure will occur where the TO will rebalance an
amount sufficiently large to cover the rebalance. This over-seized amount will (1) still actively
collateralize the user’s DeFi position without interruption and (2) can be redeemed by the user
during unbonding from the TO. A user can mitigate this concern by increasing the liquidation
granularity by depositing more, and smaller, UTXOs.

4.4

Upgrades

To maintain the ability to introduce new features and optimize protocol design in the future, the
SAR implementation can be upgraded. The time lock for any proposed change is T3 , providing
sufficient time for review by all participants in the protocol, and for participants to exit the protocol
in the event they do not agree with scheduled changes.

5

Arbitration Oracle Architecture

5.1

Overview

The Arbitration Oracle (AO) plays a key role in ensuring that the Smart Account Registry (SAR)
and the relevant protocol aspects for the Bitcoin network have consistent states. The AO is analogous to a neutral arbitrating party in a tri-party agreement.
For an instance of the protocol to be live, the Enclave codebase, proposed by the TO, must
be accepted by both the depositor and the AO operator. Firstly, the TO signs a specific source
code and configuration for an AO version. Secondly, the AO reviews this version and can accept
it by deploying it. Following the deployment of this AO version, a cryptographic attestation is
made available by the AO to both the depositor and the TO, providing a guarantee of AO integrity
(see below Guarantee 6.5). Lastly, based on this attestation, the TO accepts this specific AO
deployment as a legitimate AO party (making the AO Bitcoin signing key eligible to partake in
instances of BSA), and the depositor can review that the core logic in the enclave follows a set of
codified arbitration rules to which they agree.

5.2

Trusted Execution Environment

The main characteristic of the AO is that it can only fail due to lack of availability (offline), as
described in the Failure Model (Sec. 2.3), i.e., the AO cannot sign maliciously outside of logic
detailed in section 5.4. This guarantee is enforced by having all operations that validate protocol
states and sign transactions deployed inside a hardware enforced trusted execution environment
(TEE).
4

Incidentally, as the BSA protocol is agnostic to liquidations and liquidators, i.e., the liquidator is not required
to update the SAR and mark a position as Imbalanced in order to retrieve the collateral, the user has a theoretical
time window to restore their position by purchasing BTC.b on the open market before the imbalance is recorded by
the TO. The TO, however, can check imbalances arbitrarily, so this may not be feasible in every scenario.

14

TEEs are technologies provided by major CPU vendors that enable the creation of execution
environments with hardware-enforced isolation from other software running on the same platform.
These environments can produce a cryptographic measurement of their initial code and configuration, and generate an attestation report authenticating this measurement. This procedure uses an
attestation key rooted in hardware and certified by the vendor’s public key infrastructure.
By pairing such an attestation report with a key management service capable of verifying the
report and conditioning key release on the measured code identity, an AO can be constrained
to execute only the logic described in section 5.4, even if the operator hosting the AO behaves
adversarially with respect to other protocol participants.
Our initial implementation is designed for the cloud provider Amazon Web Services (AWS).
AWS provides a solution by integrating AWS Key Management Service (KMS) [15] with AWS
Nitro Enclaves, a TEE solution based on the Firecracker [12] virtualization technology. For an
overview of how key management is implemented with AWS for an AO, refer to Appendix D.

5.3

Enclave Architecture

The enclave implements the core logic of the AO. This includes the list of logical operations that
brings the AO to a protocol decision. This application is made up of two main components:
• Arbitration Logic: Core implementation of the dispute resolution enforcing protocol rules
• Helios Light Client: Implementation of the Altair Light Client protocol [14] for SAR state
verification.
The Enclave is packaged as an Enclave Image Format (EIF) file containing both the arbitration
logic and the light client. The AO software package is built in a reproducible manner, so any resulting EIF always yields the same PCR0 measurement; participants can thus verify that the attested
enclave matches the published source. Please see Appendix C for an overview of implementation
details.
The Enclave generates an AWS KMS key with policy restrictions that deny access outside the
Enclave application, publishes the public key with AWS attestation including Platform Configuration Registries (PCRs) values that identify the exact codebase, and is limited to providing Bitcoin
network signatures only under conditions enforced by the Enclave logic. Please see Appendix D.1.2
for an overview of implementation details.

5.4

TEE Logic

The aims of the TEE logic are to ensure the AO (i) processes only valid and relevant Bitcoin
transactions, (ii) identifies both Bitcoin and SAR protocol states, and (iii) decides on a resolution
based on the consistency or inconsistency of these states.
The AO operates in a fail-closed mode: it will only sign transactions (see figure 1, labels
4a. & 6a.) if all verification steps outlined below are completed successfully. If the AO cannot
verify the SAR state (e.g., due to light client desynchronization, Sec. 5.5), it cannot sign. This
design prioritizes safety over liveness (see Def. 2.2): no incorrect signatures can be produced under
ambiguous conditions, thus, an AO that cannot verify is operationally equivalent to an offline
AO. The depositor’s liveness guarantee is preserved by the 1-of-k redundancy model. That is, a
single correct AO with a synchronized view of the destination chain and legitimate inputs (Bitcoin
transactions) is sufficient to resolve disputes within T2 .

15

5.4.1

Transaction Verification

If the enclave receives raw transaction data for txVA→RCA ; or txVA→UTA and txUTA→UCA , the
enclave:
1. verifies signatures match the public keys in the Bitcoin transaction’s witness stack according
to the UTXO value fetched from the SAR,
2. verifies that one public key is the TO’s public key pkTO (fetched from the SAR),
3. verifies the address tweaking parameters (fetched from the SAR) and recognizes the state
transition as described at the very end of section 3.3.1.
For txVA→RCA , the enclave:
4. identifies UTXOdeposit from the input of txVA→RCA .
Or, for txUTA→UCA , the enclave:
5. verifies the output of txVA→UTA is the input of txUTA→UCA ,
6. identifies UTXOdeposit as the input of txVA→UTA .
Lastly, the enclave queries the light client to:
7. identify the user account on the SAR which is indexed against UTXOdeposit ,
8. identify the SAR UTXO status,
9. verify the software the AO is running is up-to-date (see 5.6.1 for details).
The enclave then decides the appropriate action based on the logical rules outlined in sections
5.4.2 and 5.4.3, using the UTXO status to determine the correct resolution.
5.4.2

Rebalance Resolution

For rebalancing requests by the TO (txVA→RCA ), after completing the verification steps above, the
Enclave checks the UTXO status on the SAR:
• If the UTXO status is not SpentOnRebalance (indicating an invalid rebalance request by
the TO), the enclave retrieves the PSBT from the SAR that enables the AO to resolve the
dispute in favor of the depositor and signs it.
• Otherwise, the Enclave elects to perform no action, effectively resolving the dispute in favor
of the TO, who can pull the funds after time lock T2 expires.

16

Algorithm 1 AO Enclave Logic for Rebalance Request Resolution.
Require: txVA→RCA , skAO (secret key from AO)
1: UTXOdeposit ← txVA→RCA .input
2: pkT O ← GetPKTOFromSAR(UTXOdeposit )
3: if !SigValid(txVA→RCA , pkT O ) then return ⊥
4: if txVA→RCA .output.address ̸= GetRCAFromSAR(UTXOdeposit ) then return ⊥
5: utxoStatus ← GetUTXOStatusFromSAR(UTXOdeposit )
6: if utxoStatus ̸= SpentOnRebalance then
7:
P SBTdepositor ← LookupPSBTonSAR(UTXOdeposit )
▷ PSBT to resolve in favour of
depositor
8:
txresolved ← Sign(P SBTdepositor , skAO )
9:
return txresolved
10: else
11:
return ⊥
▷ Do nothing: rebalance authorized, TO can claim after T2
5.4.3

Unbonding Challenge Resolution

For challenged unbonding requests (txUTA→UCA ), after completing the verification of section 5.4:
• If the UTXO status is Withdrawn (indicating the depositor has burned BTC.b tokens) or
Rejected (indicating the BTC.b was not yet minted and the depositor requested to exit the
protocol), the Enclave retrieves the PSBT from the SAR that enables resolving the dispute
in favor of the depositor and signs it.
• Otherwise, the Enclave elects to perform no action, effectively resolving the dispute in favor
of the TO, who can pull the funds after time lock T2 expires.
Algorithm 2 AO Enclave Logic for Unbonding Challenge Resolution
Require: txUTA→UCA and txVA→UTA , skAO (secret key from AO)
1: UTXOdeposit ← txVA→UTA .input
2: pkT O ← GetPKTOFromSAR(UTXOdeposit )
3: if !SigValid(txVA→UTA , pkT O ) then return ⊥
4: if !SigValid(txUTA→UCA , pkT O ) then return ⊥
5: if txVA→UTA .output ̸= txUTA→UCA .input then return ⊥
6: if txVA→UTA .output.address ̸= GetUTAFromSAR(UTXOdeposit ) then return ⊥
7: if txUTA→UCA .output.address ̸= GetUCAFromSAR(UTXOdeposit ) then return ⊥
8: utxoStatus ← GetUTXOStatusFromSAR(UTXOdeposit )
9: if utxoStatus ∈ {W ithdrawn, Rejected} then
10:
P SBTdepositor ← LookupPSBTonSAR(UTXOdeposit )
▷ PSBT to resolve in favour of
depositor
11:
txresolved ← Sign(P SBTdepositor , skAO )
12:
return txresolved
13: else
14:
return ⊥
▷ Do nothing: unbonding challenge authorized, TO can claim after T2

17

5.5

Light Client Synchronization

The TEE runs a light client of the destination chain in order to verify SAR events. As the first
implementation of the protocol targets the Ethereum blockchain, the following discussion describes
mechanics and constraints according to the Ethereum post-merge [13] consensus protocol. Hence,
depending on the destination chain, considerations for implementing BSA protocol roles will differ.
In Ethereum, the process of synchronizing with the network is subject to a weak subjectivity
model [16], where a Weak Subjectivity Period (WSP) Tsub defines the maximum time a node can
be offline while still resynchronizing autonomously. We stress the fact that an AO can resync
autonomously to the network after both (1) a network interruption and (2) system downtime, both
points detailed in Appendix E.2. Period Tsub is initialized with a conservative hardcoded value5
and, after the light client is synchronized, the TEE keeps updating the period length based on
network conditions following the Ethereum specification.
When the TEE comes back online after downtime, it follows a resynchronization protocol:
if downtime is less than Tsub , it resynchronizes from its last known block using a self-attested
checkpoint 6 ; if the downtime exceeds Tsub or during initial boot, it uses a TO-signed checkpoint
not older than the default hardcoded weak subjectivity period.
When an AO resynchronizes using a TO-provided checkpoint, they are responsible for verifying
the validity of the checkpoint to ensure depositor safety. An AO can decline to resync if they
disagree with the proposed checkpoint statement. An AO that declines to resync defaults to
exiting the protocol until such a further time when it agrees with the TO’s attested checkpoint.
This is operationally equivalent to an offline AO. If any of a depositor’s chosen AOs disagrees
with a checkpoint, the depositor must be notified. The depositor can decide to maintain their
BSA instance with their remaining AOs, or can choose to exit the protocol with sufficient time, as
ensured by relation 1. We explore how this impacts AO availability requirements in Appendix E.

5.6

Upgrades

The Enclave application can be upgraded to introduce new features, fix bugs, and for general code
maintenance according to the following mechanics:
1. Enclave Image Files (EIF) are signed by the TO.
2. The AWS KMS key that decrypts the AO secret key is constrained via the PCR8 value,
providing a guarantee from the Nitro Enclave system that only artifacts signed by the TO
can operate it (i.e., the TO is the only entity able to release new software upgrades).
3. AO providers are responsible for deploying and running such software in their cloud accounts;
therefore, before updating the old image with the latest upgrade, they are responsible for
verifying the contents of each upgrade.
The above points ensure all protocol parties verify and approve the AO software while guaranteeing
that only agreed software can use the AO KMS key. Depositors and the TO can request to verify
the expected software is operated by the AO using the deterministic nature of Enclave Image Files
builds and the PCR0 value reported in any attestation document. See Appendix C for info on PCR
values and Appendix F for additional consideration on the AO version lifecycle.
5

A value is set to be shorter than any reasonable presumption for a WSP.
self-attested means that the TEE periodically, or upon request (e.g., in preparation for a scheduled reboot),
creates an attestation as per section 5.8 containing the currently computed WSP which is stored in a persistent
storage by the entity running the enclave application
6

18

5.6.1

Version Expiration

Authorizing and verifying the new AO software does not provide additional security without the
ability to deprecate previous versions.
We achieve deprecation using a time-based expiration mechanism. The Smart Account Registry
holds a mapping between versions and their respective expiration. The TO can set the expiration
for a specific version by referring to its PCR0 value. The Enclave application, before performing any
protocol action, verifies that its own version is not expired by retrieving the expiration value from
the SAR. If the expiration date is past, the AO is not able to proceed with signing a transaction
for dispute resolution (as shown in Sec. 5.4.1 step 9.).
Due to the time-based expiration mechanism, AO operators have a time window within which
they can update the Enclave without any downtime. The protocol parameter relation 1 is enforced
by the AO operator deploying the initial versions of the AO software only if T3 > T1 + T2 and by
only accepting new versions with increasing expiration time. Importantly, the depositor can always
exit the protocol whenever the expiration time of the deployed AO software approaches T3 . We
develop this topic in more detail in Appendix F.

5.7

Security Properties

The TEE architecture provides the following security properties:
Property 5.1 (TEE Code Integrity). Once deployed, the TEE code cannot be modified by an AO
operator, AWS administrators, or any other party, except as outlined in sections 5.6 and 5.6.1.
Note: We analyze this property in more detail as Guarantee 6.5 in Sec.6.3.
Property 5.2 (No Pre-Signing). The AO cannot pre-sign any PSBT until after the steps outlined
in section 5.4 and subsections 5.4.3 and 5.4.2.

5.8

Attestation and Verification

Attestations are documents produced by the Enclave application to certify that a computation,
resolution, or state assessment was performed according to the core logic implemented in a specific
EIF image. Each attestation always reports the AO public key, all PCR registries of an Enclave
application deployment, and is signed by the AWS Nitro Enclave service to demonstrate such values
are legitimate. The attestation document can be verified using the AWS Nitro Enclave Public Key
Infrastructure [17].
This provides a guarantee to all protocol parties that a specific AO deployment runs a codebase
that both the TO and the AO operator agreed upon. The TO would not participate in the Protocol
User Setup Ceremony without having verified an attestation that reports the AO public key and
the expected PCR registry values. Appendix C describes how PCR values and attestation contents
define this process.

6

Security Analysis

6.1

Overview

The BSA protocol achieves a trust model where depositors only need to trust that at least one
AO (1-of-k) or the TO remains honest, achieving 1-of-(k + 1) security (see section 6.2). This
represents a significant improvement over traditional m-of-n threshold schemes that require an
19

honest majority. The security boundary is reached when all AOs and the TO are both corrupted.
Additionally, in Lombard’s model, the TO is a set of validators, called the Security Consortium,
which self-coordinate via a Tendermint [18] based consensus protocol.

6.2

Trust Model: 1-of-k vs 1-of-(k + 1)

We use the term 1-of-(k + 1) security to refer to k independent AOs and 1 TO. The TO is itself
a Byzantine Fault Tolerant distributed system running the Tendermint [18] consensus protocol,
progressing correctly if less than one-third of validators are dishonest. The distinction between
1-of-k and 1-of-(k + 1) refers specifically to the requirement that either 1-of-k AOs must remain
correct, or, if all AOs are offline, then the protocol still achieves Protocol Safety 2.5 under the
Failure Model 2.3 if the TO is honest. If the depositor’s security threshold is strictly reliant on
AOs, excluding the TO, then we have 1-of-k security; otherwise, we have 1-of-(k + 1) security.

6.3

Security Guarantees

We now outline the security guarantees of the BSA protocol with respect to the definitions in
section 2.4. The protocol achieves 1-of-(k + 1) security, requiring that at least one of k AOs (see
definition 2.1) is correct or the TO remains honest. Security guarantees ensure that funds cannot
be stolen or lost under the Failure Model 2.3.
Guarantee 6.1 (Depositor Safety). Under the assumption that at least one AO remains correct,
a depositor’s funds are safe from theft by a malicious TO. Specifically:
• A correct depositor can withdraw their native Bitcoin unilaterally after time lock T1 (if no
challenge) or at most T1 + T2 (after challenge resolution).
• A malicious TO cannot steal funds through false rebalances (VA → RCA) or unjustified
challenges (UTA → UCA), as any correct AO (online and operational) verifies the SAR state
and resolves the dispute in favor of the depositor within T2 .
• Even if an AO keypair is compromised, they cannot steal funds, as AO spending is constrained
by emulated covenants to the depositor address only (see section 3.4). The most severe action
available to a malicious AO operator is to take the AO offline, which has no impact if other
correct AOs remain online.
See Appendix F.3 for additional remarks.
Guarantee 6.2 (Token Operator Safety). The TO is safe from malicious depositors and malicious
AO operators:
• If a depositor initiates an illegitimate unbonding request (VA → UTA without updating SAR
to Withdrawn or Rejected), the TO can challenge within T1 , and funds remain in UCA until
T2 expires, enabling the TO to claim them. All correct AOs verify the SAR state and observe
the challenge to be legitimate, allowing the TO to claim funds after T2 expires.
• If a depositor’s position becomes under-collateralized, the TO can initiate a rebalancing
(VA → RCA). Correct AOs verify the destination chain imbalance exists and do not dispute, allowing the TO to claim funds after T2 expires. Incorrect AOs cannot deviate from
the prescribed behavior due to property 5.1.

20

Guarantee 6.3 (Protocol Safety). The protocol progresses towards a state ensuring Protocol
Safety under Guarantees 6.1 and 6.2.
That is, Protocol Safety holds if at least one of the following holds: (1) at least one AO is
correct, or (2) the TO is correct. If at least one AO is correct, disputes are resolved within time
lock T2 through the AO’s deterministic dispute resolution logic (sections 5.4.2 and 5.4.3). If all
AOs are offline but the TO is correct, protocol state transitions occur via Bitcoin script timelocks:
the TO can claim funds from challenge addresses (UCA, RCA) after T2 expires, ensuring progress
to a TO-safe state. The deterministic nature of Bitcoin timelocks ensures progress, regardless of
AO availability.
Note: we do not consider protocol liveness 2.2 as a property in this section given that we are
unconcerned with finality that is reached in a non-protocol-safe manner. However, the reader may
observe that eventually, the protocol will always progress to an end state (unilateral control of funds
by the depositor or TO) if either the depositor or TO is online.
Guarantee 6.4 (Covenant Enforcement). Even if AWS Nitro Enclaves or KMS are compromised,
Bitcoin can only be transferred to either: (1) the depositor’s address, or (2) the TO’s address (if AO
does not act within T2 ). This is enforced by emulated covenants (section 3.4): all PSBTs exchanged
during the Protocol User Setup Ceremony commit to specific output addresses through pre-signing
with fixed outputs. Even if the TEE or KMS is compromised, the pre-signed PSBTs cannot be
modified to create new spending paths, as they are cryptographically committed. The only valid
spending paths are defined during the original setup ceremony, preventing the establishment of new
spending paths to third parties.
Guarantee 6.5 (TEE Code Integrity). The TEE cannot be modified by AO operators, AWS administrators, or any other party, except through the upgrade mechanism in sections 5.6 and 5.6.1.
The TEE enforces code integrity through hardware-enforced isolation. The Enclave Image File
(EIF) is cryptographically measured via Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs), and any modifications to the codebase results in different PCR values, which can be verified through attestations
(section 5.8). KMS policy restrictions prevent access to signing keys outside the TEE, and the dispute resolution logic (sections 5.4.2 and 5.4.3) requires state verification before signing, preventing
pre-signing attacks.
Guarantee 6.6 (Protocol Immutability). No changes can be made to protocol design (adapter
removal 4.2.2, SAR upgrades 4.4, TEE version deprecation 5.6) before the time lock T3 expires.
All protocol modifications that impact security goals require time lock T3 . During this period,
depositors can withdraw their funds unilaterally (see Guarantee 6.1) using previously agreed upon
TEE versions, ensuring no party is forced to accept changes they disagree with.

6.4

Hypothetical Risks with Failure Analysis

In the failure model (Sec. 2.3) we assume the TO and the depositor to be Byzantine, i.e., they may
deviate arbitrarily, by acting dishonestly or maliciously, to maximize their own gain. Throughout
the paper, security is analyzed under the assumption that AOs can only fail by being offline, i.e.,
failing to fulfill time-sensitive duties. We now characterize how the protocol behaves when this
assumption is relaxed.
The system fails when Protocol Safety 2.5 is violated: either the depositor cannot regain control
of their funds (Depositor Safety fails Def. 2.3), or the TO cannot reclaim collateral when tokens
21

exit the perimeter (Token Operator Safety Def. 2.4 fails). Failures arise from: (1) AO unavailability
or key compromise, or (2) TO quorum corruption or inability to reach consensus.
6.4.1

AO Failure Types

Availability (offline). An AO is unavailable if it does not respond within T2 to sign dispute
resolutions. If there are offline AOs but at least one correct AO, all guarantees hold. If all AOs
are offline, the guarantee of Protocol Safety 6.3 can only be satisfied by an honest TO: a correct
TO can claim funds from challenge addresses after T2 ; a malicious TO can steal depositor funds
via false rebalances (violating Depositor Safety 6.1) or fail to challenge a depositor’s illegitimate
unbonding request (violating Token Operator Safety 2.4).
Key compromise. An AO’s signing key is compromised if the key is leaked such that an
adversarial actor can use it to execute transactions on behalf of the AO. The leak of one AO
key is enough for a malicious depositor to independently perform the following attack: initiate an
illegitimate unbond, receive a legitimate challenge from the TO, and sign the resolution in their
favor using the leaked key. Depositor Safety 6.1 holds, and Token Operator Safety 6.2 fails. The
Guarantee of Covenant Enforcement 6.4 fails in a non-significant way, the depositor can still send
funds to anywhere they control.
TEE Failure. An AO operator can access and update the code deployed in the enclave to something not approved by the TO. In this event the guarantees of TO Safety 6.2, Protocol Safety 6.3,
TEE Code Integrity 6.5, and Protocol Immutability 6.6 (specifically, TEE version deprecation) all
fail. Covenant Enforcement 6.4 holds, and Depositor Safety 6.1 holds if there is at least one correct
AO remaining, or if the AO with TEE failure is colluding with said depositor.
6.4.2

TO Failure Types

Inability to reach consensus (no sign). If at least 1/3 of LSC validators are offline the TO
cannot sign. The TO cannot initiate rebalances or challenge depositor unbonding requests. Protocol
Safety 6.3 is degraded. Depositor Safety 6.1 is ensured if (1) they have a UTXOs in their VA
address, or (2) they do have UTXOs in a challenged state, then they require at least one AO to be
correct. Respectively, a depositor (1) can unbond and will not be (illegitimately) challenged, and
(2) if a TO illegitimately challenges and then goes offline, the depositor still requires one correct
AO to resolve the dispute. Token Operator Safety 6.2 is degraded: the TO cannot reclaim funds
from challenge addresses if it cannot sign.
Quorum corruption. The TO requires a 2/3 supermajority to sign. If two-thirds or more
of LSC validators are Byzantine, they can form a quorum and produce malicious outcomes, e.g.,
signing false rebalances, signing false unbond challenges, or refusing to challenge illegitimate unbonding. In this case, Protocol Safety 2.5 is not achieved: a malicious depositor can steal funds if
the TO does not challenge illegitimate unbond requests, or a corrupted TO together with all AOs
offline can steal depositor funds. Token Operator Safety 6.2 fails and Depositor Safety 6.1 can fail
if all AOs are offline (see Sec. 6.4.1).
6.4.3

Guarantee Summary by Failure Type

Table 2 summarizes which guarantees remain enabled under each failure scenario. “Yes” indicates
the guarantee holds; “No” indicates it fails. For the table below, unless otherwise specified, we
assume the depositor to be Byzantine.

22

Table 2: Guarantees under failure types. Dep. = Depositor Safety 6.1; TO = Token Operator
Safety 6.2; Safety = Protocol Safety 6.3

6.5

Failure

Condition

Dep.

TO

Safety

1 AO offline
All AOs offline
All AOs offline
AO key leak
TO no consensus
TO no consensus
TO quorum corruption (non-rational)
TO quorum corruption (non-rational)

≥ 1 AO correct
TO Honest
TO Malicious
Dep. Malicious
≥ 1 AO correct
All AOs offline
≥ 1 AO correct
all AOs offline

Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No

Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
No
No

Yes
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
No

Monitoring Requirements

Security guarantees depend on monitoring of both the Bitcoin network and the destination chain.
The TO must monitor Bitcoin transactions to detect illegitimate unbonding (VA→UTA) within
T1 and challenge if necessary. Monitoring the Smart Account Registry is necessary to observe
legitimate rebalancing events before executing the transition (VA→RCA) on the Bitcoin blockchain.
Correct AOs must monitor Bitcoin to detect unfair rebalance (VA→RCA), or unfair challenges
(UTA→UCA) within T2 and resolve the dispute if necessary. Also, by monitoring the SAR, AOs
acquire knowledge about new instances of the BSA protocol to safeguard.
Failure to monitor within relevant timelock windows can lead to violation of the security guarantees outlined in section 6.3.

7

Limitations and Future Work

7.1

Current Limitations

1. Infrastructure Integrity: The protocol trusts AWS Nitro and KMS infrastructure for the
AO role. While this is a reasonable assumption, it introduces a dependency on a single
technology and service provider. We view this risk as acceptable, as in the event of a full
compromise of AWS KMS keys, the architectural design choices limit the only possible action
to be the unbonding of Bitcoin in favor of the depositor.
2. Timelock Trade-offs: The timelock periods T1 and T2 create a trade-off between security
and user experience. Longer time locks provide greater security but also introduce potential
delays for depositor unbonds and TO rebalances.
3. Liquidation Granularity: Model 1 (Collaborative Rebalance, Sec. 3.6.1) requires user
availability to create new PSBTs, which may not be ideal for all use cases. Model 2 (UTXOBased Rebalancing, Sec. 3.6.2) may impede user experience by requiring multiple signing of
PSBTs during the setup ceremony (Sec. 3.4.1).
4. Downstream Oracle Failure: The BSA protocol does not mitigate risks arising from
downstream DeFi protocol price oracle failures or manipulations, which would lead to unfair
rebalances, as the perimeter only tracks on-chain balances.

7.2

Future Work

1. Resynchronization Dependency: Supporting multiple sources beyond the Lombard Security Consortium (e.g., other trusted sources and services) to provide trusted check points
23

for the destination chains—used during resynchronization after extended AO downtime (see
section 5.5)—would improve AO liveness.
2. Multi-Client Destination Chain Architecture: Implement a selection of destination
chain clients and consensus between them to leverage code diversity and expand the set of
supported destination chains.
3. Bitcoin Protocol Upgrades: If Bitcoin adopts native covenant opcodes (e.g., OP CAT [19],
OP CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY [8]), the protocol could be simplified and efficiency improved.
4. Alternative TEE Providers: Explore support for TEE providers beyond AWS Nitro to
reduce infrastructure dependency on both the cloud provider (e.g., Google Cloud Platform,
Microsoft Azure) and CPU manufacturer (AMD SEV-SNP, Intel TDX).

8

Conclusion

This paper introduced Bitcoin Smart Accounts (BSA), a novel protocol that enables native Bitcoin to access DeFi applications while maintaining self-custody and minimizing trust assumptions.
We achieve this through the combination of emulated Bitcoin covenants (using PSBTs and Taproot scripts), a TEE-based arbitration system, and smart contracts that enable DeFi platforms to
operate without necessitating protocol-level modifications.
BSA achieves a trust model where depositors only need to trust that at least one Arbitration
Oracle or the Token Operator remains honest, achieving 1-of-(k + 1) security, a significant improvement over traditional m-of-n threshold schemes. A single honest AO can counter any decision made
by the TO, providing strong safety guarantees for depositors.
We provided security evaluations demonstrating correctness, safety, and liveness properties
under our trust model. Our design enables native Bitcoin to serve as collateral in lending markets
and other DeFi protocols without requiring users to relinquish custody of their funds, mimicking a
tri-party agreement.
The protocol represents a significant step toward unbonding Bitcoin’s vast capital for DeFi
applications while preserving Bitcoin’s core values of self-custody and trust minimization. We
believe that Bitcoin Smart Accounts provide a practical and secure foundation for the growing
Bitcoin DeFi ecosystem.

Appendices
A

Bitcoin Taproot Address Tweaking

A Taproot address commits to an internal key P and a list of spending scripts, organized in a
Merkle tree, via its Merkle root m [3], by combining them in a single tweaked key. Such a tweaked
key Q is included in the ScriptPubKey that yields the Taproot address, and it is computed as
follows: Q = P + tG where t = hash(p∥m), p is the 32-byte encoding of the x-coordinate of point P
and the point G is the generator point of the secp256k1 elliptic curve. Any variation either of the
internal key, or of the scripts list produces a different ScriptPubKey, so a different taproot address.
For full specifications, please refer to BIP-341 [3].

24

A.1

Nothing Up My Sleeves (NUMS) Internal Key

All BSA Taproot addresses use a Nothing Up My Sleeves (NUMS) point as the internal key P [3]. A
NUMS point is an elliptic curve point assumed to have an unknown discrete logarithm with respect
to the secp256k1 generator point G, implying it is computationally infeasible to use it to satisfy
a signature verification algorithm. Additionally, NUMS keys can be constructed deterministically
starting from a known set of inputs so that it is verifiable that no party can have chosen it to embed
a backdoor. BIP-341 [3] describes as an example the NUMS point,

H = lift x(0x50929b74c1a04954b78b4b6035e97a5e078a5a0f28ec96d547bfee9ace803ac0) (5)
constructed by taking the hash of the standard uncompressed encoding of G and using the
result as the x-coordinate. A number of NUMS keys can be generated starting from H by taking
H + rG where r is any integer smaller than the order of the secp256k1 curve.
Since a valid taproot address includes a key spending path, BSA disables it using a NUMS
construction, resulting in only script path spending being enabled, used for multi-signature in
covenant emulation and time-lock conditions.
BSA leverages the following NUMS construction to commit protocol-specific information in each
protocol addresses. Each NUMS point is computed following the BIP-341 [3] suggestion H + rG by
taking r = sha256(address type||tweak data) mod n, where n is the order of the secp256k1 curve.
The address type is a simple label identifying which of the four address types should be generated
(VA, UTA, UCA, RCA), while the tweak data includes all the information that characterizes the
protocol instance such as the keys of all involved parties, all timelocks, and the destination address
information.

B

Transaction Reference Table

Table 3 lists the essential Bitcoin state transitions. Abbreviations Dep, TO, AO: Depositor, Token
Operator, Arbitration Oracle. Creator : creates and signs the PSBT; Stored : where it is held (Dep,
TO, SAR); Executor : signs, finalizes, and broadcasts.

25

Table 3: Transaction reference.
Transaction

Path

Signers

Creator

Stored

Executor

Fee

Motivation

Unbond request

VA → UTA

TO & Dep

TO

SAR

Dep

Anchor;
CPFP [10]

Dep initiates withdraw
request

Unbond finalize

UTA → Dep

Dep

—

—

Dep

Dep’s UTXOs

Unbond request not
challenged, claimed
after T1

Unbond challenge

UTA → UCA

Dep & TO

Dep

TO

TO

Anchor; CPFP

TO challenges unbond
request within T1

Unbond resolve

UCA → Dep

Dep & AO

Dep

SAR

AO

SIGHASH [3]

AO sides with
depositor within T2

Unbond resolve
(expired)

UCA → TO

TO

—

—

TO

TO UTXOs

TO claims after T2 ;
challenge was valid

Rebalance request

VA → RCA

Dep & TO

Dep

TO

TO

Anchor; CPFP

TO initiates rebalance
request

Rebalance resolve

RCA → Dep

Dep & AO

Dep

SAR

AO

SIGHASH

AO sides with Dep;
unfair rebalance

Rebalance resolve
(expired)

RCA → TO

TO

—

—

TO

TO UTXOs

TO claims after T2 ;
rebalance was valid

Note: in the above table, the terms Creator and Executor are as defined in section 3.4. The
Executor column indicates the recommended party, though, after both parties have signed, either
signer may execute the state transition. Storage by the TO refers to Lombard Ledger, the Security
Consortium’s ledger.

C

Reproducible Build and Outcome for Arbitration Oracle

An important desired characteristic of Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) is the ability to
attest, or provide proof, that the outcome of a computation from within the TEE is the result of the
execution of a specific codebase with a corresponding set of inputs and states. AWS Nitro Enclaves
provides this feature via attestations: documents signed-off by the Nitro hardware and software,
validated via the AWS Public Key Infrastructure, which report measurements of the runtime state
inside a running enclave. In particular, there are two values, or Platform Configuration Registries
(PCR), that are used to verify the AO operation correctness:
1. PCR0: reports the sha384 digest of the Enclave Image File running in the enclave, effectively
certifying that a specific codebase was built and assembled in a determined runtime.
2. PCR8: reports the sha384 digest of the certificate that signed the Enclave Image File running
in the enclave, certifying that a deployed artifact has been signed by the TO.
While PCR8 is a simple certificate-match verification, the reliability of PCR0 depends on the
ability to reproduce the same Enclave Image File from the same source code. To achieve this, the
AO implementation relies on a deterministic and reproducible toolchain, which includes:
• A deterministic Rust compiler,
26

• Hash-locked dependencies for libraries needed at compile time to always produce the same
statically linked binary,
• Hash-locked dependencies for tools needed at execution time, i.e. network proxies,
• Pinned base image to construct the enclave runtime,
• Pinned Nitro Enclave toolchain to pack together the Enclave Image File from the runtime
definition and the AO logic build artifacts.

C.1

AO Attestation Contents

Beyond the PCR measurements included in all AWS Nitro Enclave attestations, such documents
offer the possibility to include additional application-specific data. The AO implementation always
sets for every attestation:
• The Bitcoin public key of the AO to correctly identify the attester identity,
• The latest Ethereum finalized checkpoint to assess what Ethereum state the AO decision was
based on,
• The hash of the AO resolution and the Bitcoin input data used to derive this resolution.

D

Arbitration Oracle Key Lifecycle

The correctness of the AO running in the TEE is directly connected to the security of the key pair
representing its Bitcoin identity. The main challenge to overcome in having a TEE operating a
Bitcoin identity is the lack of persistent storage to rely on in case of restarts of the AO-deployed
artifact. In fact, once a keypair is securely generated in an enclave using a crypto secure pseudorandom number generator, they are used in the Bitcoin scripts, addresses, and PSBTs reported in
Sec. 3 which remains valid for an indefinite amount of time. However, a restart of the AO instance
would lose any previous state, thus permanently losing the previous keypair and ostensibly implying
it could only generate a brand new identity. This issue is overcome using AWS KMS and its native
integration with AWS Nitro Enclaves attestations.
We report below all the operations an AO enclave and the operator deploying its logic in a
cloud instance (referred to as the AO operator ) carry out to achieve a secure persistent usage of a
Bitcoin identity in case of restarts, upgrades, or crash failures of the AO TEE logic.
As a brief summary of the solution (explored in the proceeding section), we can say that the
enclave logic uses AWS KMS to encrypt its Bitcoin private key. Then, it creates an attestation
using the Nitro Secure Module (NSM) that new instantiations of the enclave can use to verify that
the decoded identity originates from a legitimate execution of an AO in an AWS Nitro Enclave.
Such NSM attestations are also validated by AWS KMS, which only decrypts the encrypted backup
of the Bitcoin private key to the authorized software.

D.1

Key Initialization

On initial boot, the AO running in the enclave has no identity set, and it receives from the AO
operator the Init command which makes it:

27

1. Generate a Bitcoin keypair (secp256k1) requesting a source of randomness from the Nitro
Secure Module. Additional and independent sources of randomness can be fed to contribute
to this process.
2. Request from AWS KMS the creation of a new key with encrypt and decrypt capabilities
configured with the constraints described in Sec. D.1.2.
3. Encrypt the Bitcoin secret key using the created AWS KMS key (locally in the enclave or via
secure communication with AWS KMS)
4. Produce, using the Nitro Secure Module available inside the enclave, an attestation that
includes, in the user data field, the hash of the concatenation of the following data: the newly
generated Bitcoin public key, the encrypted private key, and the KMS Key ID.
5. Return the attestation to the cloud operator along with the information hashed in the user
data.
At the end of a successful initialization process, the AO operator will obtain:
• A Nitro Enclave initialized with the logic of an AO and a legitimate identity suitable to play
the AO role in BSA protocol instances.
• The Bitcoin public key of the AO to share to depositors for inclusion in the Protocol User
Setup Ceremony.
• An encrypted version of the Bitcoin private key corresponding to the public key of the identity
of the AO.
• The KMS Key ID used to encrypt the AO Bitcoin private key.
• An AWS Nitro Enclave attestation that the AO Bitcoin keypair has been generated according
to the logic of a specific version of the AO (PCR0 measurement) released and signed off by
the token operator (PCR8 which includes the hash of the TO certificate)
D.1.1

Key Restore

After a restart of the AO enclave, the cloud operator can restore a previously generated AO identity
by sending to the TEE a Restore command and the information obtained during the first initialization: the Bitcoin public key, the encrypted secret key, the KMS Key ID, and the attestation
committing to such information. The AO implementation running inside the Nitro Enclave:
1. Verifies the attestation using the AWS Nitro Enclave root certificate publicly provided by
AWS [17] and embedded in the enclave image.
2. Decrypts the Bitcoin secret key using the AWS KMS Key referenced by the input Key ID.
3. Verifies the decrypted secret key corresponds to the Bitcoin public key passed as input.

28

D.1.2

AWS KMS Key constraints

Constraints on the key usage are expressed in AWS KMS via a usage policy. The core of the
AWS Nitro Enclave integration with AWS KMS is the possibility to specify in the key usage policy
constraints based on the PCR measurements of the Nitro Secure Module available in the Nitro
Enclave. In the AO case, the KMS Key created during the initialization phase (Sec. D.1), includes
a condition on the PCR8 measurement. Such registry is set to the hash of the certificate released
by the entity that signed the Enclave Image File running inside the TEE. By setting such a value
to a certificate in control of the Lombard Security Consortium, the AO operator can only restore a
legitimate identity inside versions of the enclave software released and signed-off by the Consortium.
KMS will not authorize any other usage of the decryption key.
Additionally, the key policy explicitly denies updates of the policy itself, locking out the AO
operator or any root admin of the AWS Organization.

E

AO Availability Requirement Estimation

The guarantee of Depositor Safety (Sec. 6.1) pivots on the assumption the AO can protect a
depositor from potential unfair challenges by the TO. This section aims to outline the availability
requirements for an AO operator to fulfill the 1-of-k requirement in the BSA protocol.

E.1

Protocol Parameter Constraints

An AO will run software authorized by the TO if it has an expiration time of at least T3 (Sec. 3.2),
which is the minimum time window any protocol change needs to take effect. The relation T3 >
T1 + T2 , introduced in Sec. 3.2, implies any depositor, in order to be sure to leverage the protection
of an online AO, has a time window δ to judge if their participation in the BSA protocol should
come to an end (e.g., by withdrawing funds with an unbonding operation) if the new protocol
conditions are not satisfactory, where,
δ = T3 − (T1 + T2 )

(6)

Importantly, time parameter T3 is mutable, whereas, for an instance of the protocol, time parameters T1 and T2 are immutable: they are set in the locking scripts committed by addresses 3.3.1.
In order to keep the aforementioned relation valid, there should always be a timeframe within
any T3 window set by the TO where an AO can correctly validate, and, if needed, resolve challenges
by the TO: depositor-challenged unbonding requests or rebalancing requests. The minimum amount
of time it takes for a malicious TO to challenge a correct unbond and unfairly collect depositor funds
is T2 . In fact, the unbonding challenge transaction by the TO could be mined in the same block as
the unbonding request, de-facto skipping the T1 wait time, i.e., the T1 window is intended singularly
for TO security, and does not impact AO availability requirements. Therefore, on rebalancing or
challenged-unbonding requests T2 is the only time parameter to take into account. Also, we include
in our considerations the time top needed by the AO to process a challenge, i.e., the time it takes for
the AO to formulate a decision using the predefined logic outlined in 5.4, and ensure, if required,
that any action is correctly applied on the Bitcoin blockchain. Thus, an initial constraint about
the AO availability uptime′AO is:
uptime′AO >

T3 − (T2 − top )
T3

29

(7)

where it is an implicit requirement that top < T2 otherwise the AO duties could never be
fulfilled, and that uptime′ is calculated per T3 . This ensures that for any point in time t within a
T3 window from deployment by a TO, the AO must be online for at least top within the interval
[t, t + T2 ].

E.2

Ethereum Consensus Constraints

The global timelock for the TO to change protocol rules T3 is not the only critical protocol parameter
BSA parties should monitor to ensure safety guarantees hold. In fact, the AO software running in
the enclave relies on an Ethereum light client to validate protocol states from the Smart Account
Registry and resolve challenges accordingly. This means that the inability to produce a reliable
view of the Ethereum blockchain is the same as preventing an AO from fulfilling their arbitration
tasks.
An AO can access the Ethereum state in a reliable way by initializing its light client (running
inside the TEE) with a trusted checkpoint obtainable in two possible ways: from the TO by taking
a checkpoint signed-off by Lombard’s Security Consortium (LSC), or from a previous attested
checkpoint produced by the AO.
Independently from the source, according to the Ethereum consensus specification [16], each
finalized checkpoint can be considered a reliable view of the network state from the moment it
is finalized for a time period called the Weak Subjectivity Period (WSP). After the WSP expires,
the given checkpoint may expose the client to a class of attacks from a minority of validators. To
prevent that, an offline AO could only restart using a trusted checkpoint not older than the current
time minus a default minimum WSP. This mechanic impacts the uptime requirements of the AO.
At initial startup, an AO is deployed using an LSC trusted checkpoint, which can be validated
in an independent manner by the AO operator before use. After initial startup, the AO can
autonomously produce a new trusted checkpoint while it is operational. Thus, a requirement
on the AO uptime is derived by the need to be online at least once during the WSP of the latest
available trusted checkpoint, for an amount of time tcheck , defined as the time it takes to synchronize
with the network and produce an attestation of a finalized checkpoint.
tcheck
(8)
WSP
In conclusion, the complete availability requirement for an AO to fulfill their 1-of-k duty,
uptimeAO is:
uptime′′AO >

uptimeAO = max{uptime′AO , uptime′′AO }

F

(9)

AO Version Lifecycle

The AO operator is responsible for verifying accepted software versions posted by the TO have an
expiry such that δ = T3 − (T1 + T2 ) > 0, ensuring depositor safety, see Guarantee 6.1. However,
the TO is not constrained to ensure this relation holds for software version expiration. In fact, this
relation is only enforced by the SAR where T3 reflects SAR upgrades and adapter removal, while
the TO, may set an arbitrary expiration for any new AO version.
We outline below safety measures taken by the AO to ensure (1) initialization is done according
to protocol specifications and (2) an optimal upgrade choice is taken by AOs when accepting a new
version posted by the TO.

30

F.1

AO Version Deployment Criterion

The AO operator finds the current parameter T3 on the SAR. We consider software version expiration times texp as valid if texp − tpresent > T3 .

F.2

AO Version Upgrade Criterion

Assume the current accepted version by an AO has expiry time texp . A new version posted by the
TO with expiry time t′exp will be accepted by the AO if,
t′exp > texp

F.3

(10)

Depositor Time-Based Decision Criterion

If the depositor wishes to join a protocol with a specific online AO, they must ensure that
1. T1 + T2 + Top < T3 from SAR
2. tpresent + T1 + T2 + Top < texp for AO expiration
where Top is the maximal operational time it takes for the depositor to execute an unbonding
transaction and have this confirmed on the Bitcoin network.
If the AO is online, and a depositor wishes to exit the protocol the depositor can only safely
exit, provided the AO remains online, confirming an unbonding on Bitcoin before texp − (T1 + T2 ).

31

References
[1] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. https://bitcoin.org/
bitcoin.pdf, 2008.
Last accessed: March 2026
[2] Babylon Team. A Bitcoin-Charged Crypto Economy with Trustless Vaults. https://docs.
babylonlabs.io/papers/trustless-bitcoin-vaults.pdf, 2025
Last accessed: March 2026
[3] Pieter Wuille, Jonas Nick, and Anthony Towns. BIP 0341: Taproot: Segwit version 1 spending
rules. https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0341.mediawiki, 2020.
Last accessed: March 2026
[4] Lightning Network. The Bitcoin Lightning Network: Scalable Off-Chain Instant Payments.
https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf.
Last accessed: March 2026
[5] Robin Linus, Lukas Aumayr, Alexei Zamyatin, Andrea Pelosi, Zeta Avarikioti, and Matteo
Maffei. BitVM2: Bridging Bitcoin to Second Layers. https://bitvm.org/bitvm_bridge.pdf.
Last accessed: March 2026
[6] Cubist. Introducing the Bascule Drawbridge for Bitcoin Bridge Security. https://cubist.
dev/blog/introducing-the-bascule-drawbridge-for-bitcoin-bridge-security.
Last accessed: March 2026
[7] Chainlink. CCIP Token Developer Attestation Is Now Generally Available. https://blog.
chain.link/token-developer-attestation-generally-available/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[8] Jeremy Rubin. BIP 0119:
OP CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY. https://github.com/
bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0119.mediawiki, 2020.
Last accessed: March 2026
[9] Bitcoin Optech. Anchor Outputs. https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/anchor-outputs/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[10] Bitcoin Optech. Child Pays For Parent (CPFP). https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/
cpfp/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[11] Amazon Web Services. AWS Nitro Enclaves. https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/nitro/
nitro-enclaves/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[12] Firecracker Project. Firecracker: Secure and fast microVMs for serverless computing. https:
//github.com/firecracker-microvm/firecracker.
Last accessed: March 2026
[13] Ethereum
Ethereum—The
#what-is-the-merge.
Last accessed: March 2026

Merge.

32

https://ethereum.org/roadmap/merge/

[14] Ethereum Foundation. Altair Light Client—Light Client. https://ethereum.github.io/
consensus-specs/specs/altair/light-client/light-client/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[15] Amazon Web Services. AWS Key Management Service. https://aws.amazon.com/kms/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[16] Ethereum Foundation. Phase 0 – Weak Subjectivity Guide. https://ethereum.github.io/
consensus-specs/specs/phase0/weak-subjectivity/.
Last accessed: March 2026
[17] Amazon Web Services. Verifying the root of trust - AWS Nitro Enclaves. https://docs.aws.
amazon.com/enclaves/latest/user/verify-root.html.
Last accessed: March 2026
[18] Ethan Buchman, Kwon Jae, and Milosevic Zarko. ”The latest gossip on BFT consensus.”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.04938 (2018).
[19] Ethan Heilman and Armin Sabouri. BIP 0347: OP CAT. https://github.com/bitcoin/
bips/blob/master/bip-0347.mediawiki.
Last accessed: March 2026

33

