arXiv:2602.00182v1 [cs.CR] 30 Jan 2026

EigenAI: Deterministic Inference, Verifiable Results
David Ribeiro Alves
david@eigenlabs.org

Vishnu Patankar
vishnu@eigenlabs.org

Matheus Pereira
matheus@eigenlabs.org

Jamie Stephens
jamie@eigenlabs.org

Nima Vaziri
nima@eigenlabs.org

Sreeram Kannan
sreeram@eigenlabs.org

Verifiability as a missing primitive. Blockchains
revolutionized finance by making state transitions
publicly verifiable and economically final. In contrast, AI systems remain opaque: the mapping from
prompt to output is hidden behind proprietary infrastructure, and inference itself is nondeterministic
on modern GPUs. Two identical queries to the same
model can yield divergent outputs because of floatingpoint non-associativity, kernel scheduling, and variable batching. Without reproducibility, verification
through re-execution—the approach underpinning optimistic blockchains—is impossible.

Abstract
EigenAI is a verifiable AI platform built on top of the
EigenLayer restaking ecosystem. At a high level, it
combines a deterministic large–language model (LLM)
inference engine with a cryptoeconomically secured optimistic re–execution protocol so that every inference
result can be publicly audited, reproduced and, if necessary, economically enforced. An untrusted operator
runs inference on a fixed GPU architecture, signs and
encrypts the request and response, and publishes the
encrypted log to EigenDA. During a challenge window,
any watcher may request re–execution through EigenVerify; the result is then deterministically recomputed
inside a trusted execution environment (TEE) with a
threshold–released decryption key, to allow a public
challenge with private data. Because inference itself
is bit–exact, verification reduces to a byte–equality
check and a single honest replica suffices to detect
fraud. We show how this architecture yields sovereign
agents—prediction–market judges, trading bots, scientific assistants—that enjoy state–of–the–art performance while inheriting security from Ethereum’s
validator base.

1

EigenAI’s proposition. EigenAI closes this gap
by introducing a complete verifiable-AI stack:
1. Deterministic inference: bit-exact reproducibility on fixed GPU architectures using custom kernels, version-pinned drivers, and canonical reduction orders.
2. Optimistic verification: inference results are
posted, encrypted, to EigenDA and enter a challenge period. Any verifier can re-execute deterministically; mismatches trigger slashing of the
operator’s stake.
3. Privacy: all user prompts and results remain confidential through threshold key management and
TEE-based attestation before decryption.

Introduction and Motivation

4. Economic security: backed by EigenLayer’s validator base—millions of restaked ETH—providing
orders of magnitude more collateral than bespoke
AI networks.

Large-language-model (LLM) inference is rapidly
evolving from a consumer-facing chatbot interface into
a critical back-end service for autonomous and semiautonomous agents. These agents may trade assets,
adjudicate market outcomes, draft contracts, or curate
social feeds; in all cases, they must be trusted. Today’s cloud AI APIs offer impressive performance but
provide no cryptographic or economic assurance that
an inference was executed faithfully on the claimed
model and inputs. This trust gap renders current AI
infrastructure unsuitable for high-stakes or on-chain
contexts.

Sovereign verifiable agents. On top of this foundation, developers can deploy “sovereign” agents whose
logic and reasoning steps are cryptographically traceable. Prediction-market adjudicators, AI traders, scientific analysts, or verifiable NPCs in games can all
operate under the same principle: every inference is
reproducible, every deviation is detectable, and every
1

misbehavior is penalized.

Statistical or Consensus-Based Replication An
alternative is to execute the same query on multiple replicas and accept the majority or the statistically consistent output. Methods include MonteCarlo dropout and deep ensembles [3, 4] and, more
recently, self-consistency decoding [5]. However, these
approaches only bound the probability of correctness
and cannot detect rare but adversarial divergences [6].
Moreover, their cost scales with O(ε−2 log n) replicas
to achieve error ε—impractical for billion-parameter
models.

Where verifiability matters most. Verifiable inference is most valuable when an agent’s output triggers an irreversible external action or resolves a dispute between mutually distrusting parties. Concrete
classes of sovereign-agent applications that benefit the
most include:

1. On-chain adjudication and dispute resolution: prediction markets, insurance claims, and
DAO governance that require a publicly auditable
Deterministic Execution Environments Deterruling rather than a trusted intermediary.
ministic inference guarantees bit-for-bit identical out2. Autonomous execution agents: trading, liqui- puts for identical inputs. CPU or WebAssembly sanddation, and treasury-management bots whose ac- boxes (e.g., PyTorch deterministic mode [7], ONNX
tions move real capital and therefore benefit from Runtime Web [8]) provide reproducibility but are
10–100× slower than GPU back-ends and cannot serve
accountable, replayable decision traces.
production-scale LLMs. Recent vendor documenta3. Compliance- and audit-driven workflows: tion (e.g., NVIDIA cuBLAS reproducibility guide
contract drafting, policy enforcement, and sci- [9, 10]) and research [11, 12] show that determinism
entific/engineering assistants where later au- on GPUs is attainable if hardware architecture, driver,
ditability (“what was executed, under which and library versions are fixed and atomic reductions
model/environment, and why?”) is as important as avoided.
raw model quality.
Optimistic Verification and Cryptoeconomic
In these settings, deterministic receipts plus an en- Guarantees Optimistic rollups in blockchain systems
forceable challenge process turn an opaque API call introduced a model where results are accepted by deinto a verifiable, economically accountable computa- fault but can be challenged through re-execution; distion.
honest operators are economically penalized. EigenAI
extends this idea to AI inference. Determinism enables
disputes to collapse to a simple byte-equality check
Paper organization. Section 1 motivates the need
rather than a full consensus or proof-generation profor verifiable inference. Section 2 reviews prior apcess. EigenVerify—the verification layer—leverages
proaches to verifiable computation and deterministic
EigenLayer’s restaked validator pool to provide the
execution. Subsequent sections will describe the Eigenecessary bonded capital for slashing. Because verifinAI architecture, deterministic-GPU methodology,
cation is only invoked under dispute, the steady-state
optimistic-re-execution protocol, economic guarantees,
cost approaches that of normal inference while mainand empirical results.
taining cryptographic accountability.

2

Trusted Hardware and Threshold Key Manage-

Background and Related Work ment Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) such

as Intel SGX or AMD SEV provide hardware isolation
and remote attestation [13]. When combined with
threshold cryptography, they allow privacy-preserving
verification: encrypted requests on EigenDA are deCryptographic Proofs of Correctness Zerocrypted only inside attested enclaves that prove corknowledge (ZK) and interactive proof systems can, in
rect code execution. This design mitigates the tradeprinciple, produce a succinct proof that an untrusted
off between verifiability and confidentiality.
operator executed a neural network faithfully. Systems
such as SafetyNets [1] and later zkDNN frameworks
[2] demonstrate this feasibility but remain impractical Summary. Table 1 summarizes these paradigms by
for frontier LLMs: even with hardware acceleration, latency, cost, and trust assumptions. EigenAI comproving a full transformer forward pass takes minutes bines deterministic inference (for fast re-execution)
to hours. The high cost of circuit synthesis and proof with optimistic cryptoeconomic enforcement (for secugeneration limits adoption to small or static models. rity), achieving a unique balance of speed, cost, and

Three broad paradigms exist for making AI inference
verifiable:

2

trust-minimization.

3

Submission. A client constructs and signs an inference request req that fixes the model, container
digest, GPU architecture, driver/toolkit version, decoding policy, PRNG seed, and (optionally) prompt
commitments. The signed req is transmitted to an operator for execution. In practice, treating these fields
as immutable execution parameters is what later allows any verifier to replay the request under identical
conditions.

System Model and Threats

EigenAI’s trust model extends EigenLayer’s Autonomous Verifiable Services (AVS) framework to AI
inference. It formalizes how operators, verifiers, and
users interact under deterministic execution and cryptoeconomic guarantees. This section defines the system participants, their responsibilities, the security Execution. Upon receipt, the operator runs the
assumptions, and adversarial capabilities.
model under the declared environment, producing
the output out together with (optionally) auxiliary
artifacts such as per-step logits. Because the execution
3.1 System Entities
stack is deterministic (cf. Section 6), any honest reClient / Requester Submits an inference request run of the same request on the same architecture will
req consisting of a model identifier, container digest, yield a byte-identical out.
GPU architecture tag, driver/toolkit version, decoding policy, and prompt commitments. Requests Publication. To preserve confidentiality while enare signed and optionally encrypted to the EigenAI abling public audit, the operator encrypts (req, out)
public key before dispatch.
to the application public key pkapp and posts the resulting ciphertext, together with a signed receipt σop ,
Operator Executes inference inside a containerized
to EigenDA. The receipt canonically commits to the
runtime fixed to a single GPU architecture (e.g.,
request and output via their hashes and may include
H100). Produces outputs (out, logits), constructs a
a TEE attestation quote and timestamp, along with
signed receipt committing to input/output hashes,
a durable pointer to the DA record. This publication
and posts the ciphertext and receipt to EigenDA.
anchors both availability (via EigenDA) and integrity
Each operator maintains an on-chain identity and
(via the operator’s signature and the receipt fields) of
bonded stake in EigenLayer.
the claimed execution.
EigenDA A data-availability layer ensuring immutable publication of receipts and ciphertexts. Challenge window. Published results are tentative
Provides inclusion proofs for challenge adjudica- for a fixed dispute horizon of ∆ epochs. During this
tion.
window, any party may inspect receipts and either
initiate a low-cost light audit or file a formal full
EigenVerify A decentralized network of verifiers,
challenge. The former offers probabilistic coverage
economically secured by EigenLayer stake, that
without slashing authority; the latter invokes on-chain
handles challenges. Each verifier runs a thresholdadjudication and possible penalties.
cryptography Key Management Service (KMS) and
trusted execution environment (TEE) runtime. On
challenge, it re-executes the inference deterministi- Re-execution and voting. When a full challenge
is raised, EigenVerify samples a stake-weighted comcally to confirm or refute the operator’s claim.
mittee of verifiers. Each verifier boots an attested
KMS Shards Hold encrypted key shares for the TEE running the approved container, establishes muEigenAI application private key. They release tually attested channels to KMS shards to reconstruct
shares only to enclaves that successfully attest cor- skapp inside the enclave, decrypts the EigenDA cipherrect code identity, enabling privacy-preserving re- text, and deterministically re-executes Infer(req). The
execution.
committee then decides by byte-equality vote: each
c v = out ], and the verdict is
member casts bv = [ out
determined by threshold (e.g., ≥ 2/3).

3.2

Workflow Overview

At a high level, EigenAI follows an optimistic submit–publish–verify pipeline whose correctness hinges
on deterministic re-execution. We briefly narrate the
end-to-end flow and then detail each phase.

c =
Finalization. If the committee agrees that out
out, the result is finalized; otherwise, the operator is
slashed and the committee’s majority output replaces
the disputed one. This optimistic design amortizes
3

Table 1: Comparison of verifiable-inference paradigms.
Paradigm

Latency

Cost

Guarantee

ZK proofs
Statistical replication
CPU/WASM Det.
GPU determinism + optimism (EigenAI)

very high
medium
very high
low

high
high (many replicas)
low
low

mathematical
cryptoeconomical
cryptoeconomical
cryptoeconomical

cost—verification runs only under dispute—while de- 2. Colluding verifiers. A minority of EigenVerify stake
terminism collapses adjudication to a binary equality
coordinates to bias votes, delay challenges, or atcheck.
tempt to exfiltrate plaintext via misconfigured enclaves.
3. Compromised KMS shard. A single (or minority)
shard discloses partial key material or responds to
The security of the protocol rests on standard, explicit
non-attested endpoints.
assumptions that align with its layered design:
4. Malicious DA participant. Censors or withholds
• Deterministic execution. Holding fixed the GPU
ciphertexts/receipts to prevent effective challenges
architecture, driver, toolkit, and decoding policy,
or inclusion proof verification.
repeated runs of Infer(req) are bit-identical (Section 6). This guarantees that honest re-executions 5. Timing/side-channel attacker. Observes or perconverge to a unique c
out.
turbs enclave execution to infer private data or
influence control flow without altering code iden• Data availability. EigenDA provides durable stortity.
age and inclusion proofs for all posted receipts and
ciphertexts, ensuring that disputes can always retrieve the exact bytes committed at publication.
3.5 Threats and Mitigations

3.3

Security Assumptions

Table 2 consolidates the principal threat classes
with their first-line defenses.
In combination—deterministic kernels and pinned environments
(technical reproducibility), on-chain receipts and DA
proofs (cryptographic integrity), TEEs and threshold KMS (confidentiality), and stake-backed slashing
• TEE integrity. Verifier enclaves support remote (economic deterrence)—the system achieves layered,
attestation that binds code identity (container di- defense-in-depth protection.
gest) and GPU mode to a measurement; only enclaves presenting valid quotes may participate in
decryption and re-execution.
4 Protocol Overview
• Stake honesty. During any challenge epoch, at
least two thirds of EigenVerify stake behaves honestly. This Byzantine-style assumption underwrites
the committee vote and the credibility of slashing
events.

• Threshold confidentiality. The EigenAI application private key is t-of-n secret-shared across KMS
shards; fewer than t colluding shards learn nothing
useful, and shares are released only to enclaves that
satisfy attestation policy.

3.4

EigenAI implements an optimistic, verifiable inference
pipeline in which results are accepted by default but
can be efficiently disputed and re-executed under cryptoeconomic guarantees. In what follows, we present
the submission path, the receipt and data-availability
interface, the audit and challenge flows, and the deterministic re-execution procedure that together realize
this trust model.

Adversary Model

We consider a powerful adversary that may compromise some off-chain components, subject to the assumptions above:

4.1

Submission and Dataflow

1. Dishonest operator. Attempts to report falsified Each inference traverses a structured lifecycle (Fig. 1).
outputs, substitute models/containers, or replay The design principle is that every parameter that can
stale receipts in lieu of fresh computation.
influence numerical outcomes is fixed and committed
4

Table 2: Primary threat classes and mitigations.
Threat

Mitigation

Model / kernel
tampering

Immutable container digests; signed
receipts; open-source deterministic
kernels.
Single-arch policy per request; explicit
gpu_arch field in receipt; verifier enforcement.
Container pinned by digest; toolkit
and driver version fixed; GPU clock
locking.
Batch-invariant reduction kernels;
fixed decode seeds.
t-of-n threshold policy; attestationgated share release.
Hardware attestation; code measurement checks; enclave-to-shard TLS.
Stake-weighted majority voting; light
audits; fork-choice backstop.
EigenDA inclusion proofs; redundancy across operators.

Crossarchitecture
drift
Library
/
driver drift
Batch nondeterminism
KMS compromise
TEE compromise
Verifier collusion
Data
withholding (DA)

Publishing to EigenDA establishes durable availability
(for future disputes), while the operator’s signature
anchors integrity and provenance.
4. Data availability and challenge window.
Upon publication, the result enters a fixed dispute
horizon of ∆ blocks. During this challenge window,
any party may retrieve the receipt and either perform
a low-cost light audit or lodge a formal full challenge.
The former offers randomized coverage without onchain penalties; the latter triggers adjudication with
the possibility of slashing.

4.2

Light Audit versus Full Challenge

Light audit. A user or watchdog recruits a small,
randomly chosen subset of EigenVerify nodes to reexecute the request off-chain. This provides probabilistic assurances at minimal cost and is well-suited
for continuous, background integrity monitoring.

Full challenge. If an inconsistency is detected—or
if a counterparty disputes a result—an on-chain challenge is filed. EigenVerify then samples a stakeweighted committee V representing a supermajority of
1. Request preparation. The client constructs a bonded capital. Committee members re-execute the
request in attested TEEs and vote by byte equality
canonical request
on the operator’s claim.
D
E
container_digest, gpu_arch, driver_tag,
req = decode_policy,
.
seed, prompt_commitments

up front, enabling any verifier to replay the request in
an identical environment.

4.3

Deterministic Re-Execution and

signs it, and submits it to an operator. All fields
Voting
are treated as immutable execution parameters for
reproducibility; in particular, prompt_commitments The adjudication step consists of reproducing the
(when present) is a Merkle root that binds any external claimed computation inside trusted enclaves and dedocuments or tool outputs referenced by the prompt. ciding by equality of bytes. Concretely, each verifier
v ∈ V:
2. Deterministic execution. The operator runs
1. boots an enclave with the approved container (prothe model inside the declared container on the declared
ducing an attestation quote),
hardware architecture, producing the token sequence
and, optionally, per-step logits. By construction (Sec- 2. proves attestation to the KMS shards and recontion 6), this execution is bit-deterministic: rerunning
structs skapp in-enclave,
the same request under the same environment yields
3. fetches the ciphertext and receipt from EigenDA
the identical byte stream.
and verifies σop ,
c v,
3. Receipt formation and publication. To cou- 4. deterministically runs Infer(req) to obtain out
ple confidentiality with auditability, the operator enc v = out ].
5. casts a vote bv = [ out
crypts (req, out) to the application public key pkapp
and posts the ciphertext together with a signed receipt Assume τ = 2/3. If the vote fraction satisfies
P
to EigenDA. The receipt commits to the request and
bv /|V| ≥ τ , the result is accepted; otherwise, the
output via their hashes and may include attestation operator is slashed and the committee’s majority outevidence and timing metadata:
put replaces the disputed one. Determinism collapses
D
E
the decision to a binary equality test, eliminating
H(out), model_id,
receipt = H(req),
, σop = Signskop (receipt).
ambiguity and extensive deliberation.
chainid, da_pointer
5

Operator

Client

EigenDA

Light audits:
minority stake
(no slashing)

EigenVerify

Full challenges:
majority committee,
deterministic re-exec,
byte-equality voting,
slashing on mismatch

Figure 1: Swimlane depicting Client → Operator → EigenDA → EigenVerify. Light audits sample a small
minority of stake (no slashing); full challenges invoke a majority committee for deterministic re-execution,
byte-equality voting, and slashing on mismatch.
Table 3: Receipt schema and field semantics.
Field

Purpose

model_id
chain_id
gpu_arch
req_hash
out_hash
da_pointer
sig

Identifier of model weights
Identifier of the chain
Hardware generation (e.g., H100)
Hash of request parameters
Hash of output logits/tokens
EigenDA inclusion reference
Operator’s digital signature

Algorithm 2 Full challenge verification (deterministic
re-execution).
1: Input: DA pointer p, receipt rcp, signature σop
2: V ← stake-weighted committee sample
3: for v ∈ V in parallel do
4:
Boot attested enclave; obtain quote qv

Establish attested channels to KMS; reconstruct skapp
6:
Download (cipher, rcp) from EigenDA
7:
Verify σop ; decrypt to (req, out)
c v ← Infer(req)
8:
out
Algorithm 1 Operator submission routine (canoni- 9:
c v = out ]
Vote bv ← [ out
calized).
10: end for
P
11: if
bv /|V| < τ then
1: Input: req, model M, container C, GPU arch a
c
12:
Slash
operator stake; finalize majority out
2: out ← Infer(M, C, a, req)
13:
else
3: rcp ← ⟨H(req), H(out), t⟩
14:
Finalize out as verified
4: σop ← Signskop (rcp)
15:
end
if
5: cipher ← Encpkapp (req, out)
6: Publish (cipher, rcp, σop ) to EigenDA
7: Start challenge timer ∆
allows verification of correctness without revealing the
underlying user data.
Cost amortization. Because re-execution is invoked
only under dispute, steady-state operation mirrors
5.1 End-to-End Encryption and Key
ordinary inference costs. When challenges do occur,
Management
determinism ensures that even a single honest verifier
suffices to detect fraud, and a small committee can Every inference request and its corresponding output
finalize outcomes with minimal overhead.
are encrypted to the EigenAI application public key
5:

pkapp before publication. The corresponding private
key skapp is never held in a single location; instead, it
5 Privacy Architecture: Thresh- is fragmented
into n shares and distributed across the
EigenVerify Key Management Service (KMS) network
old KMS and TEEs
using a t-of-n threshold scheme, such as Shamir’s seWhile verifiability necessarily promotes transparency, cret sharing. No single KMS shard can decrypt or
many EigenAI users operate on sensitive data that reconstruct skapp independently, and shards only remust remain private. To reconcile these opposing lease key shares to enclaves that successfully prove
demands, EigenAI layers a robust confidentiality sub- their authenticity and code integrity via remote attesstrate atop its verifiable infrastructure through a com- tation. This design enforces that decryption can occur
bination of threshold key management and trusted only within verified, attested enclaves, ensuring that
execution environments (TEEs). This architecture plaintext data never exists outside of secure execution
6

contexts.

5.2

5.4

Key Epochs, Rotation, and Policy
Enforcement

Remote Attestation and Secure To further mitigate long-term compromise risk, EigenAI enforces periodic key rotation through key epochs.
Share Release

Each receipt explicitly records the key epoch used
during encryption. KMS policies track these epochs
and automatically deny reconstruction requests for
retired keys. When a rotation event occurs—either
on schedule or triggered by a security incident—new
key shares are generated, and governance proposals
via
EigenVerify are used to update metadata across
1. A verifier launches a TEE running the approved
participants.
This guarantees forward secrecy while
container image, producing a hardware-signed atmaintaining
uninterrupted
availability for active retestation quote q that includes a cryptographic
quests.
hash of the loaded binary (the measurement).
2. Each KMS shard validates q, confirming that the Taken together, these mechanisms ensure that verifiaenclave is both genuine and running an authorized bility and confidentiality coexist harmoniously. DeterEigenAI image. Quotes are also checked for fresh- ministic execution and public receipts make correctness independently checkable, while threshold crypness to prevent replay attacks.
tography and attested enclaves guarantee that user
3. After successful validation, shards establish mu- data remains inaccessible to all parties except during
tually attested TLS sessions with the enclave, en- secured, ephemeral re-execution inside TEEs.
suring end-to-end confidentiality and integrity of
communication.

The interaction between verifier enclaves and KMS
shards follows a mutually authenticated sequence, depicted conceptually in Fig. 2. This sequence guarantees that key material is distributed only to legitimate
enclaves running approved EigenAI software stacks:

6

Deterministic Inference: Tech-

6.1

Why Determinism Matters

4. Shards transmit their encrypted key shares to the
nical Foundations
enclave, which reconstructs skapp entirely in volatile
memory. Using this key, the enclave decrypts the
Deterministic inference forms the technical cornerEigenDA ciphertext and proceeds with determinisstone of EigenAI’s verifiability framework. Without
tic re-execution of the inference task.
strict bit-level reproducibility, optimistic re-execution
5. Upon completion, the enclave securely zeroizes would become ambiguous—disputes could not be reskapp and all session-specific secrets, preventing solved by simple equality checks, and consensus would
residual key material from persisting after verifica- devolve into probabilistic agreement. This section surveys the sources of nondeterminism in modern GPUtion.
based deep-learning systems, outlines the engineering
This remote attestation sequence is central to Eige- controls used to eliminate them, and discusses their
nAI’s privacy architecture: it cryptographically binds empirical validation. It extends our prior Bit-Exact
data access to verified code identity, thereby elimi- Inference on GPUs work with new insights specific to
nating the possibility of decryption by compromised cryptoeconomic verification.
nodes or untrusted software.

5.3

Auditability Without Decryption

Large language model (LLM) inference comprises
thousands of parallel GPU kernels performing linear algebra and nonlinear reductions. Minute variations in operation ordering, rounding behavior, or
kernel selection can perturb the resulting logits and,
consequently, alter sampled tokens. In everyday applications this variability is imperceptible; in a verifiable
execution setting it is catastrophic. Because EigenVerify relies on comparing the outputs of independent
re-executions, even a single bit of nondeterministic
drift would undermine the ability to distinguish honest
disagreement from dishonesty.

Importantly, confidentiality does not come at the expense of transparency. Because each inference is accompanied by cryptographic commitments—H(req)
and H(out)—external auditors can verify inclusion
proofs on EigenDA and validate operator signatures
without accessing any plaintext data. This property allows independent parties to conduct statistical audits
of operator honesty and data-availability compliance
while maintaining end-to-end encryption of user content. In effect, the system preserves both verifiable
correctness and privacy by design.
7

TEE enclave
(EigenAI verifier)

attest
attested TLS

Attestation quote
(container measurement)

KMS shards
(t-of-n shares)

Verify quote
& enclave identity

Release encrypted
key shares over
attested TLS

Reconstruct skapp
in-enclave

Deterministic
re-execution
& verification

Decrypt payload
from EigenDA

Zeroize skapp and
all session secrets

Figure 2: TEE–KMS negotiation flow. The enclave attests its container measurement; KMS shards verify the
quote, establish attested TLS connections, and release key shares. The enclave reconstructs skapp in memory,
decrypts the payload, performs verification, and zeroizes all secrets afterward.
Establishing determinism transforms inference from a
stochastic numerical process into a pure function:

both of which compromise reproducibility. Furthermore, “fast math” and mixed-precision modes
often trade consistency for throughput.

F : (model, arch, prompt, seed, decode) −→ output,

3. Inference Engine. Framework-level optimizations—dynamic graph fusion, asynchronous kernel
where output is guaranteed to be bit-identical for all
launches, and stochastic decoding—introduce anhonest re-executions given the same parameters.
other layer of variability. Although frameworks
such as PyTorch and TensorFlow offer determinis6.2 Sources of Nondeterminism
tic flags, these apply only to a subset of supported
operations.
Determinism in GPU inference is fragile and may be
compromised by variations across the hardware and
software stack. We categorize four principal layers of 6.3 Hardware-Level Determinism
variability, illustrated conceptually in Fig. 3.
Modern NVIDIA GPUs can achieve bit-exact repro1. Hardware. Floating-point units differ slightly ducibility when operated under controlled conditions.
across GPU generations (e.g., A100 vs. H100), im- The Hopper architecture family (H100, GH200) guarplementing fused multiply-add (FMA) and round- antees repeatable outputs from cuBLAS routines on
ing modes with subtle architectural distinctions. identical GPUs and toolkit versions [10, 9]. IndepenDeterministic inference therefore requires enforcing dent investigations confirm that discrepancies between
single-architecture policies.
architectures stem primarily from software scheduling,
not from arithmetic pipelines [12, 11].
2. Math Libraries. Core libraries such as cuBLAS,
cuDNN, or TensorRT may invoke atomic operations EigenAI enforces a single-architecture policy within
or rely on non-associative accumulation orders, each deployment: all operators and verifiers must
8

Table 4: Visibility matrix for EigenAI’s privacy and verification components.
Component

Access to Plaintext?

Description

Client
Operator
EigenDA
KMS Shard
TEE Verifier
External Auditor

Yes
No
No
No
Yes (in-enclave)
No

Originator and owner of prompts and outputs.
Encrypts all data to pkapp ; never sees plaintext.
Stores ciphertext and receipts; provides inclusion proofs only.
Holds encrypted key shares; cannot reconstruct full key.
Attested enclave temporarily reconstructs skapp for verification
Validates hashes, receipts, and signatures without accessing plaintext.

Hardware
GPU microarchitecture,
rounding, warp
scheduling

Driver /
Runtime
CUDA toolkit,
autotuners,
kernel dispatch

Math Libraries
cuBLAS, cuDNN,
TensorRT;
atomic ops,
accumulation

Inference Engine
Graph fusion,
decode policies

Figure 3: Sources of nondeterminism across the GPU stack: (1) Hardware microarchitecture, (2)
Driver/runtime, (3) Math libraries and kernels, (4) Inference engine and decode policy. Each layer must be
pinned or replaced with deterministic equivalents.
;
utilize identical GPU SKUs, while persistence mode 2. Warp-synchronous reductions. Within each
is enabled to avoid state transitions that might alter block, threads compute partial dot-products and perkernel execution order.
form a canonical binary-tree reduction using warp
intrinsics:

6.4

Determinism in Base Libraries

for (int off = warpSize/2; off > 0; off /= 2)
sum += __shfl_down_sync(0xffff, sum, off);

The inference engine underpinning EigenAI builds
upon llama.cpp, an open-source C/CUDA implementation with a small and auditable numerical surface.
Its quantized matrix-multiplication kernels (e.g., Q4,
Q5) are inherently deterministic: they avoid atomics and implement warp-synchronous reductions with
fixed thread order. For remaining operations that
delegate to cuBLAS or cuBLASLt, EigenAI enforces
deterministic configuration flags [25]:

The reduction order is identical across runs, guaranteeing reproducible rounding paths [26, 27].

3. No floating-point atomics. All accumulations
are explicitly ordered through register or sharedmemory operations. Floating-point atomics are entirely disabled because their non-associative semantics
can yield nondeterministic results. Despite this restriction, deterministic kernels maintain 95–98% of
These settings forbid nondeterministic atomics and
standard cuBLAS throughput on Hopper-class hardnon-associative mixed-precision reductions. Although
ware.
cuBLAS is proprietary, its deterministic guarantees
have been repeatedly validated in empirical testing.

6.6
6.5

Deterministic Kernel Design

Deterministic
Decoding
PRNG Control

and

Token generation, which often involves sampling
At the core of EigenAI’s reproducibility efforts are
from probability distributions (e.g., top-k or nucleus
custom GEMM kernels and reduction primitives that
sampling), introduces another source of variability.
enforce deterministic ordering. Each kernel satisfies
EigenAI enforces deterministic decoding by employthree invariants:
ing a fixed-seed pseudorandom number generator
(PRNG) and canonical iteration order. For any pair
1. Fixed block–thread mapping. Thread blocks (seed, decode_policy), the emitted token sequence
are deterministically mapped to output tiles with no is reproducible. Users seeking nondeterministic saminter-block communication, ensuring that the GPU’s pling may simply vary the seed but can still verify
scheduler cannot affect numerical outcomes.
that any output matches the declared seed and policy
9

recorded in the operator’s receipt.

6.7

• Disable all nondeterministic math primitives and
autotuners.

End-to-End Determinism Experi- • Seed PRNGs deterministically and record seeds in
receipts.
ments

We validated EigenAI’s deterministic guarantees • Hash and sign (prompt, out) tuples for auditability
through systematic experiments on NVIDIA Hopper
GPUs. Each test identical container digests, and con- 6.10 Discussion
sistent runtime environments.
Our experiments confirm that bit-exact determinism
is achievable on contemporary GPU hardware with
Setup. Two independent H100 nodes, both execut- negligible performance loss. By constraining variabiling llama.cpp-based inference, processed a 1,000- ity at every level of the software and hardware stack,
prompt benchmark spanning summarization, reason- EigenAI converts opaque numerical computation into
ing, and code generation tasks. For each execution a reproducible process amenable to independent rewe recorded the hash:
execution. This engineering discipline is what enables
cryptoeconomic assurance: in EigenAI, correctness
SHA256(prompt || logits || tokens).
can be proven by anyone through mere repetition,
with no reliance on statistical tests or zero-knowledge
Results. Across 10,000 runs, all hashes matched proofs.
exactly—no bit-level divergence was observed. Crossarchitecture comparisons (A100 vs. H100) yielded
Implementation Details and
measurable but expected deviations (∼ 10−7 in log- 7
its), confirming architecture-dependent rounding and
Developer Experience
motivating per-architecture verifier pools.
EigenAI is designed to feel like a familiar cloud AI
6.8 Reproducibility and Verifiability service while embedding deterministic and verifiable
execution at every layer. Developers interact through
Determinism collapses verification to a simple equality an OpenAI-compatible API, and each response carries
check. Because every honest re-execution yields an deterministic metadata, a cryptographic receipt, and
identical byte string, the verification predicate
a pointer into EigenDA for later verification.
(
True,
out1 = out2 ,
7.1 API Compatibility and Metadata
Verify(out1 , out2 ) =
False, otherwise
The
EigenAI
API
mirrors
the
/v1/chat/completions
and
/v1/completions
becomes both sound and complete. This property
enables EigenAI to scale: verification of thousands of endpoints used by OpenAI. Clients can substitute the
inference tasks reduces to constant-time byte compar- EigenAI base URL without changing request syntax.
isons rather than probabilistic voting or cryptographic Responses contain deterministic metadata fields as
shown in Table 6.
proofs.

6.9

Implementation Guidelines

For practitioners deploying deterministic inference under EigenAI, the following guidelines are mandatory:

This metadata allows any verifier to retrieve the corresponding entry from EigenDA and re-run the request
under the same environment.

• Pin exact CUDA and driver versions (e.g.,
CUDA 12.4 with R550 driver).

7.2

Container and Hardware Constraints

All inference containers are built atop fixed
• Reference container images by digest and avoid CUDA/driver pairs, referenced by digest. Operamutable tags.
tors must enable persistence mode and turn on ECC
memory. During the testing phase we discovered non• Enable persistence mode.
determinism due to faulty memory; this problem was
• Enable deterministic modes in cuBLAS/cuBLASLt mitigated by making sure that ECC was turned on.
and disallow atomics.
Container and driver versions are registered on-chain
10

Table 5: Empirical determinism verification on Hopper GPUs.
Test Condition

Match Rate

Notes

100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
0.0%

Bitwise identical outputs
Bitwise identical outputs
Bitwise identical outputs
Diff. exec paths, rounding

Same host, same GPU
Same host, same GPU arch but diff number of GPUs
Different hosts, same cpu arch/GPU SKU
Different GPU architecture (A100 vs. H100)

S

s0123

s4567

s01

v0

s23

v1

v2

s45

v3

v4

s67

v5

v6

v7

Figure 4: Canonical warp-level reduction tree used in deterministic kernels. Each thread contributes a
partial value vi and participates in pairwise summations in a fixed binary-tree pattern, ensuring identical
accumulation order and reproducible results across executions.
and verified by EigenVerify committees during chal- Algorithm 3 Reproduce-and-Verify Procedure
lenges.
1: Input: EigenDA pointer p, metadata meta from
API response
2:
Download (cipher, receipt) from EigenDA
7.3 Reproduction Cookbook for Audi3:
Verify operator signature σop
tors
4: Launch container C with exact digest and driver
Auditors can independently reproduce any inference
5: Set
environment
variables
per
using the following minimal procedure (Algorithm 3).
meta.system_fingerprint
Because inference is deterministic, matching hashes
c ← Infer(req, seed, decode)
6: Run out
suffice to validate correctness.
7: Compare SHA256( c
out) with receipt.out_hash
8: if hashes match then return VERIFIED
Auditors may also verify EigenDA inclusion proofs to
9: elsereturn INVALID
ensure the operator’s record was properly published
10: end if
and unaltered.

8

Economic and Governance Mechanics

EigenAI inherits its security not only from deterministic execution but also from the broader cryptoeconomic foundation provided by EigenLayer. The
economic layer determines how honest behavior is
incentivized, how disputes are resolved, and how pro11

tocol parameters evolve. In this section we outline
the lightweight audit pathway, the full challenge-andslashing mechanism, and the governance structures
that maintain long-term system health.

Table 6: Key response metadata for deterministic verification.

8.1

Field

Description

system_fingerprint
determinism.seed
receipt.req_hash
receipt.out_hash
receipt.sig
eigendalink

Concatenation of container digest, GPU arch, driver version
Fixed PRNG seed used for decoding
SHA256 of request parameters
SHA256 of model output
Operator signature over receipt tuple
Pointer to EigenDA inclusion proof

Light Audits

8.3

Light audits provide an inexpensive integrity check on
the behavior of operators. A watcher or client may recruit a small, randomly selected subset of EigenVerify
nodes to re-execute a published inference off-chain. Because these audits lack slashing authority, they impose
minimal cost and latency overhead. Their purpose
is statistical: by maintaining a nonzero background
probability of inspection, they deter latent collusion
and encourage operators to remain honest even when
they believe they are not under direct scrutiny. Light
audits may be rewarded through small bounties or
micro-incentives funded by EigenAI usage fees.

8.2

Fork-Choice Backstop

If an extreme collusion scenario were ever to push
an invalid result through verification, EigenLayer’s
fork-choice rule provides a final safety net. Restakers
may coordinate a social fork to penalize misbehaving
validators, restoring correctness. This mechanism
ensures economic finality of truth: the equilibrium
strategy for long-term actors is always to preserve
correctness rather than collude.

Full Challenges and Slashing

8.4

Governance and Parameterization

EigenAI’s operational parameters—stake requirements, slashing fractions, challenge thresholds, and
audit frequencies—are governed through the EigenLayer governance process. Governance proposals may
tune these values over time as workloads, economic
conditions, or adversarial models evolve. Looking
ahead, governance may also introduce dynamic fee
markets for audit capacity, enabling users to purchase
higher integrity assurance on demand.

A full challenge is invoked when a receipt is formally
disputed. EigenVerify samples a stake-weighted committee V and requires a supermajority (e.g., ≥ 2/3)
agreement to finalize the result. Each verifier reexecutes the inference inside an attested enclave and
votes on byte-level equality with the operator’s outSecurity Analysis
put. A mismatch triggers slashing of the operator’s 9
bonded stake, which is redistributed to challengers
We now examine EigenAI’s security properties in agand verifiers:
gregate, showing how determinism, confidentiality,
data availability, and economic incentives interact to
Rewardchallenger = αSslash ,
Rewardverifier = βSslash ,
form a cohesive and robust trust model.
with α and β set by governance. Remaining stake may
be burned or returned to the EigenLayer treasury.

9.1

Security Properties and Enabling
Features

Because the cost of verification is low compared to
potential fraud gains, the expected utility of cheat- We separate security properties (what the system
ing becomes negative for any reasonable challenge should guarantee) from features of the construction
(engineering choices that help realize those guaranprobability πc :
tees).
E[Gain] = (1 − πc )G − πc Sslash < 0,

Desired security properties. EigenAI targets the
following security properties for each published inferwhere G denotes the maximum benefit from dishonence:
esty. Since πc is augmented by both light audits and
user-initiated challenges, rational operators are eco- • Integrity (correctness): the published output
nomically driven to behave honestly.
out corresponds to the unique result of running the
12

E[U ]
G

cheating utility

honest baseline
πc∗ =

G
Sslash

πc (challenge probability)

−Sslash

Figure 5: Payoff diagram comparing operator utilities under varying challenge probabilities πc . A dishonest
operator’s expected utility becomes negative once πc > G/Sslash , making cheating economically irrational.
declared model and request under the committed
execution parameters.

9.2

• Confidentiality (privacy): prompts and output
remain hidden from unauthorized parties; plaintext
is exposed only to authorized clients and, during dispute resolution, transiently inside attested verifier
enclaves.

Soundness and Completeness

Soundness. Soundness requires that dishonest behavior be detectable. If an operator deviates from the
canonical deterministic execution, any honest verifier
will compute a different output during re-execution.
Because verification reduces to byte-equality, disagreement is unambiguous, and the probability of undetected fraud falls exponentially with the fraction of
honest stake participating in the committee.

• Availability: the evidence needed to audit or dispute an inference (ciphertext, receipt, and DA inclusion evidence) remains retrievable throughout Completeness. Completeness requires that honest
the challenge window.
operators never be penalized. Determinism guarantees that re-executions match the operator’s output
• Accountability: if an operator publishes an incor- exactly, irrespective of runtime noise (e.g., cache state,
rect result, there exists a publicly checkable proce- thread scheduling). Fixed PRNG seeds and canonical
dure that can penalize the operator (slashing) and reduction orders ensure that honest executions always
finalize a correct outcome.
converge to the same result, preventing false slashing.
Enabling features of the constructions. These
properties are supported by (non-exhaustively):

9.3

• Compute determinism (Section 6), which makes
inference effectively single-valued and enables unambiguous re-execution.
• Cryptographic commitments and data availability (operator receipts and EigenDA publication), which bind claims to immutable bytes retrievable for disputes.

Privacy and Confidentiality

Confidentiality is preserved through threshold key
management and TEE-based attestation (Section 5).
Only attested enclaves executing approved containers ever reconstruct skapp . All other components—including operators, DA nodes, auditors, and
even KMS shards—observe only cryptographic commitments or encrypted payloads. Thus, verifiability
and confidentiality reinforce one another: verification
speaks to correctness, while TEEs guarantee that verification does not leak sensitive user data.

• TEE-based private re-execution with threshold keys (Section 5), which permits verification on
9.4 Liveness and Fault Tolerance
private data without revealing plaintext in steady
state.
EigenDA ensures that ciphertexts and receipts remain
retrievable for the duration of the challenge window.
• Optimistic verification with stake-backed EigenVerify’s committee sampling tolerates partial
slashing, which turns detected mismatches into failures: if some verifiers are offline or unresponsive,
enforceable economic penalties.
the remaining honest majority can still reach a verdict.
13

Table 7: Residual risks and planned mitigations.
Residual Risk

Mitigation / Roadmap

Crossarchitecture
portability
Closed-source
library paths
Economic parameter drift
Operator
cartelization

Maintain per-architecture verifier
pools; explore numeric normalization
for cross-device verification.
Replace remaining cuBLAS/cuDNN
calls with open deterministic kernels.
Regular governance calibration and
dynamic fee markets.
Stake decentralization; randomized
committee sampling.

Table 8: Determinism evaluation across hosts and
configurations.
Configuration
Same host
Different hosts / same SKU
Batch-size variance ±20%
Diff arch (A100 vs H100)

Batches

Match

1
2
2
2

10
10
20
10

100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
0.0%

Table 9: Throughput and latency comparison (batch
= 8, seq = 1024).
Kernel Type

Timeouts ensure that the system progresses even if
no challenge is raised, providing liveness equivalent to cuBLAS (baseline)
Det. GEMM (EigenAI)
other optimistic systems.

Det. mixed-precision
End-to-end LLM inference

9.5

Hosts

Rel. Thrpt

Overhead

1.00×
0.97×
0.95×
0.98×

–
+2.4%
+4.1%
+1.8%

Residual Risks and Mitigations

Table 7 summarizes remaining risks. Some stem
from hardware trust assumptions (TEEs), others from
portability constraints (GPU architecture differences).
In each case, we outline roadmap items to further
reduce exposure.

we perturb the batch size by ±20%, observing no divergence. As expected, cross-architecture tests (A100
versus H100) do not match bitwise due to differences
in floating-point rounding behavior, underscoring the
need for per-architecture verifier sets.

Overall, EigenAI achieves layered, composable security: determinism provides technical reproducibility,
TEEs enforce confidentiality, EigenDA guarantees
availability, and EigenLayer adds cryptoeconomic cor- 10.2 Stress and Batch-Invariance Tests
rectness. These layers interlock to produce a verifiable
To evaluate robustness under operational noise, we
inference system resilient to both adversarial behavior
co-schedule background GPU workloads that induce
and accidental faults.
synthetic jitter and scheduling variability. Despite
this perturbation, all runs produced identical outputs,
10 Evaluation and Experiments confirming that deterministic kernel design—warpsynchronous reductions, fixed decoding order, and
We evaluate EigenAI along three axes: (i) the ro- pinned software stack—effectively isolates inference
bustness of bit-exact determinism under realistic de- from transient runtime effects. These results indicate
ployment conditions, (ii) the performance overhead that EigenAI’s determinism holds not only under ideof deterministic kernels relative to vendor-optimized alized conditions but also in realistic multi-tenant and
baselines, and (iii) the end-to-end cost of verification performance-variable environments.
in light and full challenge scenarios. All experiments
were conducted on NVIDIA H100 GPUs using pinned
container digests and identical software environments. 10.3 Performance Overhead

10.1

Determinism Verification

We first assess whether EigenAI’s execution stack produces bit-identical outputs across repeated runs and
heterogeneous deployment settings. Repeated inference on the same host yielded perfect equality across
all logits and generated tokens. Cross-host experiments—running identical containers on two independent H100 nodes—also produced exact matches. To
probe sensitivity to batching and runtime variability,
14

Next, we quantify the throughput and latency cost
of deterministic kernels relative to vendor-optimized
baselines. On Hopper GPUs, our deterministic
GEMM kernels achieve 97–99% of cuBLAS throughput for quantized matrix multiplications, and approximately 95% for mixed-precision projection layers.
End-to-end LLM inference shows only a modest latency increase (≈ 1.8%), demonstrating that determinism can be achieved without compromising stateof-the-art performance.

11

Limitations and Future Work

Although EigenAI achieves deterministic inference and
robust verification, several open challenges remain:
• Cross-Architecture Reproducibility. Determinism currently holds only within fixed GPU families. Future work includes portable numeric normalization to enable heterogeneous verifier sets.
• Residual Library Paths. Certain cuBLAS and
cuDNN operations remain closed-source; we plan
to replace them with open deterministic equivalents
to achieve complete auditability.

[5] Wang, X., Wei, J., Schuurmans, D., et al. “SelfConsistency Improves Chain-of-Thought Reasoning in Language Models.” Proc. ICLR 2023.
[6] Atıl, B., Aykent, S., Chittams, A., et al. “NonDeterminism of ‘Deterministic’ LLM Settings.”
arXiv:2408.04667 (v2 Apr 2025).
[7] PyTorch Core Team. “Reproducibility—Notes on
Randomness and Determinism.” PyTorch Documentation v2.7, 2023.
[8] ONNX Runtime Team. “Performance Tips for
ONNX Runtime Web (WASM Backend).” Technical note, 2023.

• Tool and API Determinism. Agents that call
external APIs or tools require deterministic transcript recording; EigenAI will extend receipts to
include signed external call logs.

[9] NVIDIA Corporation. cuBLAS Library User
Guide, Release 12.3, §2.1 “Results Reproducibility.” Santa Clara, CA, Aug 2023.

12

[10] NVIDIA Corporation. cuBLAS Library User
Guide, CUDA Toolkit v12.9, §2.4.20, 2023.

Conclusion

[11] Shanmugavelu, A., et al. “Impacts of FloatingEigenAI unites deterministic GPU inference, privacyPoint Non-Associativity on Reproducibility
preserving verification, and EigenLayer’s cryptoecofor HPC and Deep Learning Applications.”
nomic guarantees into a single coherent platform. By
arXiv:2403.11545, 2024.
making AI results reproducible, auditable, and slashable under fraud, it delivers a practical route to veri- [12] Coleman, C., and Siemons, J. “Non-Determinism
fiable AI at state-of-the-art performance. These
in GPU-Accelerated Deep Learning Frameworks.”
properties enable trustworthy sovereign agents—AI
arXiv:2208.13040, 2022.
systems that can autonomously act, reason, and transact across high-stakes domains both on- and off-chain. [13] EigenLabs. EigenVerify Overview (Objective Dispute Resolution Preview). EigenCloud DocumenAs deterministic computation and cryptoeconomic
tation, 2025.
security converge, verifiable intelligence becomes a
first-class primitive for decentralized and enterprise [14] EigenLabs. EigenCloud Brings Verifiable AI to
ecosystems alike.
Mass Market with EigenAI and EigenCompute
Launches. EigenCloud Blog, Sept 2025.

References

[15] NVIDIA Corporation. CUDA Compatibility
Guide for Developers, 2023.

[1] Ghodsi, Z., Gu, T., and Garg, S. “SafetyNets:
Verifiable Execution of Deep Neural Networks [16] NVIDIA Corporation. NVIDIA System Management Interface (nvidia-smi) User Guide, 2023.
on an Untrusted Cloud.” Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 30, 2017.
[17] NVIDIA Corporation. “Best Practices for
NVIDIA Container Images.” Technical documen[2] Kang, D., Hashimoto, T., Stoica, I., and Sun, Y.
tation, rev. 2024.
“Scaling Up Trustless DNN Inference with ZeroKnowledge Proofs.” arXiv:2210.08674, 2022.
[18] EigenLabs. EigenLayer Core Protocol and Restaking Architecture. Technical white paper, 2025.
[3] Gal, Y., and Ghahramani, Z. “Dropout as a
Bayesian Approximation: Representing Model
[19] Shamir, A. “How to Share a Secret.” CommuniUncertainty in Deep Learning.” Proc. 33rd ICML,
cations of the ACM, 22(11):612–613, 1979.
2016.
[20] Intel Corporation. Intel Software Guard Exten[4] Lakshminarayanan, B., Pritzel, A., and Blundell,
sions (SGX) Developer Guide, 2016.
C. “Simple and Scalable Predictive Uncertainty
Estimation Using Deep Ensembles.” NeurIPS 30, [21] AMD. Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV)
2017.
Architecture Reference Manual, rev. 1.55, 2020.
15

[22] Murphy, S. “Building CUDA Images on GitHub
Runners with Nix.” Technical note, 2024.
[23] NVIDIA. Megatron-LM: Training Multi-Billion
Parameter Language Models Using Model Parallelism. GitHub repository, accessed May 2025.
[24] Stoyanov, R., et al. “CRIUgpu: Transparent
Checkpointing of GPU-Accelerated Workloads.”
arXiv:2502.16631, 2025.
[25] NVIDIA Developer Blog. “Reproducible Results
with cuBLASLt.” June 2023.
[26] NVIDIA Developer Blog. “Using CUDA WarpLevel Primitives.” July 2018.
[27] Riach, D. “Determinism in Deep Learning.”
NVIDIA GTC Presentation S9911, 2019.
[28] EigenLabs. EigenLayer Economic Security and
Slashing Parameters. Technical whitepaper, 2025.
[29] EigenLabs. EigenLayer Governance Framework.
Documentation, 2025.
[30] EigenLabs. EigenDA: Data Availability for Verifiable Compute. Whitepaper, 2025.
[31] EigenLabs. EigenCompute: Verifiable Container
Runtime for Deterministic Agents. Technical documentation, 2025.
[32] EigenLabs Research. Empirical Evaluation of Deterministic Inference Kernels on Hopper GPUs.
Internal report, 2025.
[33] Zhang, Y., and Coleman, C. “DetBench: Benchmarking Deterministic Deep Learning Kernels.”
arXiv:2411.01854, 2024.
[34] Blackman, D., and Vigna, S. “Scrambled Linear Pseudorandom Number Generators.” ACM
Transactions on Mathematical Software, 45(2):28,
2018.
[35] Docker Inc. Content Addressable Storage and Image Digests in Docker. Technical documentation,
2023.
[36] EigenLabs. EigenDA Proof Structures and Merkle
Verification API. Developer documentation, 2025.

16

