HPCCFA: Leveraging Hardware Performance Counters for Control Flow
Attestation
Claudius Pott

arXiv:2603.29749v1 [cs.CR] 31 Mar 2026

University of Lübeck
Lübeck, Germany
c.pott@uni-luebeck.de

Luca Wilke

Jan Wichelmann

Thomas Eisenbarth

University of Lübeck
Azure Research
University of Lübeck
Lübeck, Germany
Microsoft
Lübeck, Germany
Cambridge, UK
j.wichelmann@uni-luebeck.de thomas.eisenbarth@uni-luebeck.de
l.wilke@uni-luebeck.de

Abstract—Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) allow the
secure execution of code on remote systems without the need
to trust their operators. They use static attestation as a
central mechanism for establishing trust, allowing remote
parties to verify that their code is executed unmodified in
an isolated environment. However, this form of attestation
does not cover runtime attacks, where an attacker exploits
vulnerabilities in the software inside the Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE). Control Flow Attestation (CFA), a form
of runtime attestation, is designed to detect such attacks.
In this work, we present a method to extend TEEs
with CFA and discuss how it can prevent exploitation in
the event of detected control flow violations. Furthermore,
we introduce HPCCFA, a mechanism that uses Hardware
Performance Counters (HPCs) for CFA purposes, enabling
hardware-backed trace generation on commodity CPUs. We
demonstrate the feasibility of HPCCFA on a proof-of-concept
implementation for Keystone on RISC-V. Our evaluation
investigates the interplay of the number of measurement
points and runtime protection, and reveals a trade-off between detection reliability and performance overhead.
Index Terms—control flow attestation, hardware performance counter, trusted execution environment, Keystone,
RISC-V

1. Introduction
The use of Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs),
especially in cloud settings, is becoming ever more prevalent. TEEs allow the execution of code in enclaves and
provide a range of security guarantees, such as isolation,
confidentiality, and integrity. A central security mechanism is static attestation, where the TEE measures the
state of the enclaves after initialization, thus being able to
attest this initial state to remote parties. This prevents the
host OS from tampering with the enclave’s binary, as any
modifications would show up in the attestation report.
However, these mechanisms are not suitable to detect
or prevent runtime attacks, where an enclave is targeted
after its initialization. Prominent examples of runtime attacks are Return-Oriented Programming (ROP) and JumpOriented Programming (JOP) attacks. Runtime attestation
provides the means to detect such attacks. One runtime
attestation concept is Control Flow Attestation (CFA),
where the goal is to ensure that a program’s execution

follows the expected control flow. A long line of work
[1]–[7] explores different approaches for CFA. Most of
them rely on a remote verifier [1]–[5], [7], and a common
assumption is a trusted operating system [5], [7]. The approach proposed by [8] is related to the concept presented
in this paper. It also uses two enclaves running on the same
system to enable and protect its attestation. However, their
design relies on the components of the traced enclave for
parts of the trace generation, which could be problematic
if it is fully compromised. Furthermore, they are creating
their Control Flow Graphs (CFGs) by tracing benign
executions of their program, which introduces the risk of
falsely rejecting valid control flows, due to an incomplete
CFG.
In this work, we present HPCCFA, a CFA design
for TEEs. It allows live verification of code running in
enclaves and is able to prevent leakages before they take
effect. The design also incorporates a clean separation
of the traced code and the generation of the necessary
traces, preventing fully compromised enclaves from tampering with their traces. Additionally, the verification is
performed on the same physical system, avoiding any
latencies incurred by sending the traces through a network.
Lastly, the design does not require any hardware modifications, making it applicable to generic and commonly
available hardware.
The key to accomplish this is to run the attested code
in one enclave and have a connected enclave responsible for the attestation. Our design requires only minimal
changes to the TEE to enable mutual authentication between two enclaves and provide trace generation capabilities, while integrating well with existing approaches
to gather control flow data. However, these approaches
require either software instrumentation, which could potentially be overcome by an attacker, or hardware changes,
which exclude existing hardware, to trace the control flow.
Therefore, as a second contribution, we present HPCCFA. It implements our CFA design and uses the existing
Hardware Performance Counter architecture to generate
traces for the Control Flow Attestation. It does not require
hardware changes and does not debend on the monitored
application to generate its own traces. To this end, the
TEE takes snapshots of the performance counter values
every time control passes to or from the traced enclave.
These snapshots are then passed to the tracer enclave
which performs its verification. This relies on the CFG
of the traced enclave in combination with accurate Hard-

ware Performance Counter (HPC) predictions for each
transition. The approach is designed to never reject valid
control flows, thus eliminating the risk of false alarms
and erroneous program terminations. We provide a proofof-concept implementation of HPCCFA for Keystone on
RISC-V using the quad core StarFive VisionFive2 SoC.
Our evaluation shows that the concept works effectively for shorter or less complex program sequences,
although it also shows a low detection rate for long and
complex program sequences Based on these insights, we
explore how the addition of measurement points can keep
all sequences of an enclave short and, therefore, allow
reliable CFA for entire enclaves.

flow violations. However, the aspect of detecting such violations paired with the ability to prevent a compromised
enclave from leaking any data also shows parallels to CFI
approaches.
Other mechanisms in the field of runtime attestation
are not based on the control flow of the attested programs.
Examples for these are [9] and [10]. While [9] introduces
a concept that allows memory introspection for SGX
enclaves without breaking their security guarantees, [10]
utilizes SGX to implement a component running on the
hypervisor that can attest the runtime integrity of VMs to
remote users.

2.2. Trusted Execution Environments
1.1. Our Contribution
For our main contributions, we:
•
•
•

propose an architecture for flexible on device CFA
and prototype it in Keystone
present HPCCFA, an HPC-based CFA scheme and
analyze its efficacy and performance
discuss use cases of HPC for CFA.

Our source code will be made available on Github.
Outline. This paper is structured as follows. We begin
with a summary of relevant background information (Section 2). Then follow up with an introduction to our general
system design (Section 3) and the more concrete variant
using HPCs (Section 4) that was implemented (Section 5)
and evaluated (Section 6) in this paper. Afterwards, we
analyze the security (Section 7) and discuss the approach
and future work (Section 8). A discussion of related work
(Section 9) will follow before closing with a conclusion
(Section 10).

2. Background
We will begin with an introduction to runtime attestation, followed by information on TEEs and specifically
on Keystone. We will then close this section with an
introduction into HPCs.

The concept of TEEs has been around for more than
two decades. They provide CPUs with the capabilities to
create an isolated execution environment that can be used
to securely execute code, without the need to trust the host
OS.
Typical TEE applications have two separate components - the host application and the enclave. The host
application runs within the context of the host OS, as
any ordinary application would. Thus, it does not provide
strong isolation guarantees, instead it is used to setup the
enclave and serves as a communication interface between
the trusted and untrusted world. In contrast, the enclave
runs inside the isolated execution environment, providing
strong protections even against the host OS. However,
it also means that it is not able to access basic system
resources, such as network interfaces or the host OS’s
file system. When developing a trusted application, one
defines an edge call (ecall) interface between the host
application and its enclave. This interface can provide the
enclave with access to system resources and allows the
host application to send input to the enclave or receive
output from it. Usually, this form of communication is
enabled by the use of shared memory. Some tasks have
to be completed by the TEE itself, such as cleaning
up registers when switching out of a trusted context or
blocking access to certain memory regions. This usually
involves a trusted software component that we refer to as
the Security Monitor (SM).

2.1. Runtime Attestation
2.3. Keystone
As previously noted, one form of runtime attestation
is CFA. Here, the system is usually split into two parties.
One is the application whose control flow we want to
attest, the other is an application that given some kind of
control flow trace has to decide whether the trace complies
with the expected control flow. Naturally, the former party
is viewed as untrusted, the latter is viewed as trusted.
The concepts of CFA and Control Flow Integrity (CFI)
are closely related. The difference between the two is
that CFA is providing a way to verify that the expected
control flow was actually followed, while CFI mechanisms
are preventing certain control flow attacks with additional
security layers, e.g., Intel CET1 . We consider HPCCFA to
be a CFA approach, because it does not prevent control
1. https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/
technical/technical-look-control-flow-enforcement-technology.html
(Accessed 2025-04-04)

Keystone [11] is an open-source TEE for RISC-V. It
uses a programming model similar to Intel SGX, where
the enclave is split into two parts – the host app and the
eapp. The main task of the host application is to facilitate
the loading of the eapp as well as to act as a proxy for
the eapp to interact with the host system. The eapp can
make use of both S-mode and U-mode, allowing it to set
up its own runtime environment (e.g. Eyrie [11] or SeL42 ).
The Security Monitor (SM) acts as the root of trust of the
system by controlling the M-mode privilege level. It offers
two APIs, one for the untrusted host apps and one that is
available only to the trusted eapps. The former is used,
for example, to create a new eapp while the latter can
allow an eapp to engage in a nonce based protocol to
retrieve its attestation report.
2. https://sel4.systems/ (Accessed 2025-11-20)

To isolate eapps from the remaining system, Keystone
uses the optional Physical Memory Protection (PMP) [12,
Sec 3.7] feature of RISC-V. This feature allows M-mode
software, such as Keystone’s Security Monitor, to configure which physical address regions are accessible by
the lower privilege levels. The SM updates the PMP rules
when context switching into and out of eapps to achieve
its isolation guarantees.

2.4. Hardware Performance Counters
HPCs also referred to as Hardware Performance Monitoring Counters, are counting units built into modern
CPUs. They allow tracking a wide variety of hardware
events during the CPU’s normal execution. HPCs were
originally designed to provide developers with information
about potential bottlenecks in their code, but have since
been used to accomplish variety of tasks, e.g. Malware
Detection [13], [14].
In this work, we aim to accurately predict performance
counter values for certain code blocks. We therefore differentiate between deterministic and non-deterministic performance counters, based on their behavior when running
the same code multiple times. For example, information
about cache hits and misses can differ between multiple
runs of the same code, while the number of retired instructions and branches taken will always be the same.
In this work we focus only on deterministic counters, as
this allows us to exactly predict the performance counter
values purely based on the executed code.

3. System Design
In this section, we give an overview of the general
system design of our CFA approach.
As outlined in the introduction, we designed our system with the following goals:
1)
2)
3)
4)

Live verification of control flow data with low
runtime overhead,
Clean separation of traced code and control flow
trace generation,
Verification of control flow traces on the same
physical system that the traced code runs on,
No hardware modifications.

This section will first explain our threat model and
then give an overview of the concept on how to extend
enclaves with CFA capabilities, followed by details on the
trace generation and verification workflow.

3.1. Threat Model
We assume that the TEE provides the expected security guarantees and is implemented correctly, i.e. free from
bugs. More concretely, we assume that the TEE performs
static attestation on the initial contents of all enclaves to
verify that they contain the expected code and that the
attacker cannot directly read from or write to the memory
of the enclave after initialization. We also assume that
the hardware implementation of the system is bug-free,
including the implementation of components like the HPC
architecture and the PMP.

The goal of our attacker is to leak secret data that is
processed inside an enclave, so they have full control over
the host operating system. Additionally, we assume that
the software inside the traced enclave has vulnerabilities
that allow an attacker to arbitarily manipulate the control
flow via an externally accessible API.
In this work, we are not considering side-channel
attacks or hardware attacks to be in scope as these present
an orthogonal issue. Further, we are assuming that the
attacker has no interest in performing a Denial of Service
attack, as this would be trivial for an OS-level attacker.

3.2. General Runtime Attestation Concept
Throughout this paper, we will call the application
whose control flow we want to monitor the tracee; its
counterpart, which is verifying the validity of the control
flow data, is called the tracer. The control flow data that
needs to be verified is also referred to as (control flow)
trace. In our design, the tracer and the tracee are running
inside their own enclaves inside a TEE. This has various
advantages for both components.
Running the tracee in an enclave drastically improves
the security guarantees that we can achieve with a control
flow trace. While the static attestation mechanism of the
TEE allows us to prove the integrity of the tracee’s code
at load time, the TEE’s isolation guarantees ensure that
no external code can interfere with our application’s execution. Thus, all of the code that can potentially interfere
with the execution of the tracee is proven to be initially
benign and is continuously monitored afterwards.
We need to evaluate the tracee’s control flow traces
in a trustworthy environment. Commonly, this is done by
sending them to a remote system, where the evaluation
can happen independently [1]–[7]. When a (semi-)live
verification of the control flow is desired, this adds a lot of
latency. Since we already use a TEE for the tracee, we can
avoid this bottleneck by running the tracer in an enclave
as well. This fulfills the need for a trusted evaluation
environment even on an untrusted system, thus enabling
us to run both tracer and tracee on the same system,
without compromising the security. This also allows us to
use shared memory for low-latency and high-bandwidth
transfer of the control flow traces.
Immediately attesting the validity of each control flow
instruction would add an impractical amount of overhead.
Instead, we suggest leveraging the isolation model of
TEEs to perform the verification in a slightly delayed,
batched manner without increasing the security implications of a successful control flow attack inside the tracee’s
enclave. The key insight to achieve this is that any malicious behavior of the tracee, e.g. as a result of a breached
control flow, is acceptable as long as we are able to detect
it before it can change any state outside of the boundary
of the tracee’s enclave. We capitalize on this insight by
prohibiting access to any shared memory areas between
the enclave and the remaining untrusted system, until the
control flow status of the enclave has been successfully
verified. This fits well into the already established ecall
programming model for secure enclaves.
It is vital that the tracer and tracee enclaves are always
executed in tandem, while neither is oblivious to the
other. The tracee’s control flow information is security

sensitive; therefore, it may only be read by its trusted
tracer enclave. The tracee ensures that only a trusted tracer
can be connected by specifying the tracer’s hash in its
own metadata, which is covered by the static attestation
and can be verified externally. On the other hand, a tracee
enclave is only allowed to run while its tracer is attached,
ensuring that the CFA has to be enabled.
While it may be feasible to have one tracer that is able
to attest multiple tracees even at the same time, doing so
would not be practical, as this would require the tracer to
be updated if any of its tracees is updated, which in turn
would require all of the tracees to be updated with the
tracers new hash.

Figure 1. Verification workflow for a tracee tracer tandem. When the
tracee performs an ecall, the SM ensures that the shared memory region
is only accessible after the control flow has been verified by the tracer.

3.3. Trace Generation
Our tracer/tracee system design is not bound to a
specific mechanism to obtain control flow data. On a
high level, we simply require the mechanism to write the
control flow data to a memory buffer managed by the
SM that is inaccessible to any lower privileged software,
especially the tracee. As detailed in the next section,
the SM will forward the data to the tracer enclave and
orchestrate the attestation process.
In this paper, we explore the feasibility of using HPCs
to gather control flow data. To this end, the SM manages
the HPCs, which allows it to measure the execution of
the tracee enclaves. It further makes them inaccessible to
untrusted software and the enclave itself. During context
switches out of a tracee enclave, it stores the collected
HPC data in a buffer that the tracer can then access during
verification. Using this approach, malicious code in the
enclave cannot interfere with the measurement data. We
explain our approach in detail in Section 4. Alternatively,
it should be straightforward to integrate hardware-based
tracking approaches like [2], where a modified CPU logs
information about certain control flow events. The hardware component could either write directly to the SM
manged buffer or trigger an interrupt to instruct the SM
to copy the data from an internal buffer.
Our approach could also work with software instrumentation, although with reduced security guarantees.
This is due to the fact that the measurement data is
captured inside the enclave, thus allowing an attacker to
potentially modify the measurements before they are sent
to the SM, if they gain full control over the tracee.

3.4. Verification Workflow
Figure 1 shows the workflow for the verification. During startup, the tracee and tracer enclave perform mutual
attestation to establish trust. As explained above, this is
necessary because only a tracer enclave trusted by the
tracee instance can be allowed to access its control flow
data. While the tracee enclave is running, it is in the
GATHERING state and its control flow is monitored by one
of the mechanisms described in the previous section. Upon
encountering and executing an ecall instruction, the SM
takes over (1) and sets the tracee’s verification state to
PENDING, signaling that verification from the tracer is
required, before unlocking shared memory regions. Next
(2), the SM passes control to the tracer enclave to initiate
the verification process.

After being invoked, the tracer requests the control
flow data from the SM. It then performs the verification
and (3) returns control to the SM. If the verification was
successful, the SM unblocks the shared memory region
(4) and invokes the host application of the tracee enclave
which can now handle the ecall requested by the enclave
in the first step. If the verification fails (not depicted)
the SM stops the tracee’s execution, keeping the shared
memory area blocked to prevent any sensitive data from
being leaked.
Apart from its connection to a tracer enclave, the
tracee enclave provides all functionalities that any other
enclave does. The same does not necessarily apply to the
tracer enclave, since, depending on the implementation, it
does not need a host application, as it only has to interact
with the SM.

4. Attestation Mechanism
After having established a concept to achieve general
runtime attestation in TEE scenarios, we continue with
the concrete case of HPCs measurements as control flow
traces.
On a high level, our approach works as follows. First,
we use static code analysis to obtain the CFG of a
program where each node corresponds to a Basic Block
(BB). Additionally, each node stores the influence that
the corresponding BB has on the HPCs. At runtime, we
observe the execution of the the enclave via HPCs. Every
time the enclave exits, thus passing control to the SM, the
monitor stores a snapshot of the HPC values together with
the current instruction pointer of the enclave. To verify
the control flow of the program between two exits, the
algorithm identifies the nodes in the CFG corresponding
to the instruction pointer values and decides whether
there is a path between them that produces the observed
performance counter values. Note that our concept of a
control flow violation depends solely on the CFG of a
program. If, for example, we have a loop on the CFG,
we consider any number of loop iterations to be valid,
even if the underlying program code uses a static forloop that is repeated exactly 16 times. If, however, the
for-loop is unrolled by the compiler, the fixed number of
loop iterations is baked into the CFG making deviations
a control flow violation.
This approach stands in stark contrast to software- or
hardware-based instrumentation that can capture both the

source and the target address of all control flow transfers,
reducing control flow verification to checking whether the
encoded path exists in the CFG. In the worst case, we have
to evaluate each path between the two nodes in order to
verify the control flow. However, evaluating the control
flow only at static control flow transfers to the security
monitor that happen due to ecalls, has the advantage
that these paths can be precomputed, thus reducing the
verification time. We propose two optimizations for this
basic approach; one reduces the search space when handling returns from function calls, the other allows efficient
handling of loops.

Figure 2. Example section of a CFG with a simple path and transitively
connected loops.

4.1. Call Stack
Programs often call the same function from multiple
locations. Thus, the nodes that correspond to BBs with
return instructions have many edges to various far-spread
locations in the CFG. This quickly makes searching for
all paths between two nodes intractable and also increases
the chance of false attestations. By keeping track of the
call stack of the program, we can drastically reduce the
number of return edges that we need to consider.
Parsing the enclave’s calls stack from its stack memory
during exits to the SM is very challenging, because stack
memory does not have a well-defined layout. While some
architectures like RISC-V, do make use of a link register,
the return address is still stored to the stack as soon as
function calls nest, which is prevalent in most programs.
Instead, we use an inductive approach. From the initially
empty call stack, we add and remove entries to and from
the call stack as we verify the individual control flow
segments.
To precompute the allowed call stacks for each return
edge, we add an additional step to the CFG generation.
We build a function level CFG of the program and assign
possible call stacks to each function based on its reachability.
If recursion is utilized, the reachability of certain
functions becomes more complex and their number of
possible call stacks can become infinitely large. As handling recursion correctly would add a lot of complexity,
we made the decision to leave this open for future work
and allow no recursion in our current work. Note that this
does not limit the capabilities of the attested enclaves, as
every recursion can be rewritten as an iteration.

4.2. Loops
Similarly to recursion, loops pose a special challenge
for control flow verification, the reason being that the CFG
allows an arbitrary number of loop iterations. Even if the
number of iterations is fixed in the source code, the CFG
does not retain this information (unless the loop is unrolled
during compilation). An excerpt of a CFG is depicted in
Figure 2. If we are, for example, at node B, it is always
allowed proceed to either node D, entering loop 1, or to
node C, continuing on the simple path. In line with related
work [1], [2], we therefore consider arbitrary numbers of
loop iterations to be valid.
To prevent loops from breaking our scheme, we initially search for all loop-free simple paths between two
given nodes in the CFG. Afterwards, we enrich each

simple path with the transitive closure of all loops that
it touches. In the example shown in Figure 2, the nodes
A → B → C make up the simple path and B →
D → E → B and D → F → G → D are the
loops connected to the simple path. Any number of loop
iterations that, combined with the simple path, produce the
measured performance counter values is accepted as valid.
To simplify the verification algorithm, we do not enforce
that inner loops, such as Loop 1 in Figure 2, are taken
at least once for the outer loop (Loop 2) to be available.
This simplification will never cause any valid control flow
to be rejected by the verification; however, it could allow
malicious control flows to be falsely verified. However,
our evaluation (Section 6) reveals how the reliability of
the verification can be increased by other means.

4.3. Formal Verification Model
Deciding whether a path in combination with its connected loops, is a challenge in itself. The effect of a simple
path on the HPCs is easy to determine, one must simply
sum up the effect of all BBs od the path. However, each
linear combination of loops needs to be considered to
determine whether a measured set of HPC values is valid.
Simply testing all possibilities is of course infeasible, let
us therefore look at the problem more formally.
Each simple path and each loop can be modeled as
a vector vi that encodes their effect on the performance
counters. Given an HPC measurement m, we need to find
scalars xi such that m = p + x0 · v0 + . . . xn · vn . The
vector p encodes the simple path and is thus not multiplied
by a scalar. Further, the scalars xi encode loop iteration
counts, therefore these are restricted to positive integers.
The structure encoded by this equation is referred to as
an integer cone. A close relation to lattices is given by
definition, as allowing negative scalars would result in the
definition of lattices.
ILP Formulation. To algorithmically solve the integer cone membership problem, we model it as an Integer
Linear Programming (ILP) problem:
maximise:
x0 · v0 + x1 · v1 + ... + xn · vn
subject to: x0 · v0 + x1 · v1 + ... + xn · vn ≤ m-p
x0 , ..., xn ≥ 0

The first constraint makes sure that the solution does not
exceed the target vector in any dimension. The second
one constrains the scalars to allow only positive values.
The maximize function is designed to find a solution that
is as close to the measurement as possible. If a valid
combination of loops can produce the measurement, it

follows that a solution that reaches exactly the target HPC
values (i.e. m − p) exists. If we therefore find such a
solution, we also know that a valid combination of loops
can produce the measured values. If, however, the result
is less than the target result in even one dimension, we
conclude that there is no way that a combination of the
given simple loops can result in the target HPC values.

4.4. HPC Selection
Naturally, this verification algorithm only works if the
selected performance counters behave deterministically.
This disqualifies counters that, e.g., track cache misses
or microarchitectural stalls. However, this still leaves a
large number of viable performance counters. In Section 5,
we provide additional details on how we profiled the
performance monitoring counters on RISC-V to build a
mapping from instructions to their influence on the HPCs.
Modern processors provide numerous events available
for counting, but the number of counter registers available
is usually quite limited. While the algorithms presented in
this work are able to handle an arbitrary number of HPCs,
it is intuitive that the amount of counters available has an
impact on the reliability of the verification. Additionally,
the value distribution of the measured events over the
executed program plays a crucial role. As described in
Section 4.3, the accepted performance counter values for
a simple path with n loops are equal to the integer cone
generated by the loop vectors v1 to vn . The reliability of
our verification approach decreases as the density of the
integer cone increases. In the extreme case, where the cone
n
is equal to (Z>0 ) , any measurement would be accepted
as valid. Thus, we aim to select the performance counters
such that given the value distribution of the program we
minimize the density of the integer cones generated by
the simple path segments. As the density of the integer
cone itself is not trivial to compute, we use the density
of the corresponding lattice as a proxy. This is based on
the fact that the density of the cone converges towards the
density of the corresponding lattice the larger the scalars
become [15], [16]. We perform an empirical study of the
influence of both the number and the value distribution of
the performance counters used in Section 6.6.

5. Implementation in Keystone
In this section, we describe our proof of concept
implementation of the tracee/tracer concept from Section 3, as well as the HPC-based control flow tracing from
Section 4 for the RISC-V Keystone TEE. Figure 3 shows
an overview of all components involved.

5.1. SM Modifications
To implement the concept of tracer and tracee enclaves, some additional metadata needs to be stored for
each enclave and Keystone’s API (A in Figure 3) needs
to be extended. We modify Keystone’s central enclave data
structure to include some static configuration information
that is part of the attestation report, as well as some
dynamic metadata that may change during the lifetime of
an enclave. The former can, for example, be used to verify

Figure 3. Overview of our tracer tracee architecture implementation in
Keystone. We modified the enclave API (A) to add support for different
roles and the transfer of control flow information to a tracer controlled
buffer (B). The tracer and tracee enclaves communicate via IPC (C)
and the shared memory of the tracee enclave with the host (D) is only
unlocked after the control flow verification succeeded.

that a valid tracer has been attached to a tracee enclave,
while the the latter is required to facilitate the verification
workflow.
During enclave creation, we add a role to the static
information for each enclave, this be TRACEE, TRACER,
or NONE, where the latter marks a regular enclave, without CFA support. Both tracee and tracer enclaves also
store a reference to their counterparts. Additionally, each
enclave was extended with a field to specify the expected
attestation value of the associated tracer enclave. Since
this field is only relevant for enclaves with the TRACEE
role, it is required to be zeroed for all other roles. For
tracee enclaves, the dynamic metadata consists of the current verification state, as well as the performance counter
readings and the instruction pointer during the least recent
exit.
To facilitate the verification workflow we added two
API calls that are only available to tracer enclaves. The
attach as tracer API call, connects a tracer to its tracee
enclave. It first checks whether the calling enclave is
allowed to trace the specified tracee enclave by comparing
the static attestation value of the calling enclave with the
reference value specified by the tracee. In addition, the
tracer needs to provide a buffer residing inside its private
memory range, which is used by the SM to share the
control flow measurements of the tracee with the tracer
(B in Figure 3). If these checks pass, the SM stores a
reference to their respective counterpart in both the tracer
and tracee enclaves and marks the tracee as runnable.
The set cfa verification state API call, allows a tracer to
update the verification state of its tracee. The host OS is
blocked from accessing the shared memory region of the
tracee enclave as soon as it starts executing and access is
only granted after the tracer has successfully verified the
tracee’s control flow. Accessibility to the shared memory
region is controlled via a dedicated PMP entry.

5.2. Verification Workflow
Following the enclave model, both the tracer and the
tracee are split into an untrusted host application and the
trusted enclave which are referred to as host app and eapp
in Keystone. Both tracer and tracee, therefore run independently and in separate processes. Communication between
the two parties is implemented via an IPC mechanism (C

in Figure 3) between the two host apps. In detail, the
communication between the two parties is structured as
follows.
Initialization: The tracee host application is started
first. During initialization, the expected attestation value
of its tracer is passed to the SM and a POSIX handle for
a shared memory object is created. To avoid confusion
with the shared memory region, used by the eapp to
communicate with its host app, we hence refer to this
memory as IPC memory in the following. Afterwards,
the tracee waits for its tracer. The tracer is then started
with a handle to the IPC memory and the id of its tracee.
During its initialization, it calls the attach as tracer API
to register with the SM and then notifies the tracee’s host
app via the IPC memory. Afterwards, it sleeps, waiting
for verification requests.
Runtime: After being notified that the initialization
is complete, the tracee host app calls the SM to start
executing its eapp. When the eapp performs an ecall,
the SM returns control to the tracee host application as
would be the case for any default enclave, however, it
keeps the shared memory region blocked. Next, the tracee
host application wakes up the tracer host application via
their IPC memory. That in turn triggers the tracer eapp
to perform the verification and communicate the outcome
to the SM via the set cfa verification state API call.
If the verification was successful, the SM then unlocks
the shared memory region. Afterwards, the tracer eapp
switches back to its host application, which again uses
the ipc memory to inform the tracee host application that
the verification has been completed. Finally, the tracee
host application can access the shared memory region of
its eapp, to handle the original ecall (D in Figure 3.
We made the deliberate decision not to task the SM
with scheduling the execution of the tracer, to keep the
Trusted Computing Base (TCB) small and to not interfere
with the regular OS scheduling logic. The downside of this
design is additional overhead due to switching between
two processes. We discuss alternative designs in Section 8.

5.3. Generating Control Flow Traces
In this section we explain our configuration of the
HPCs to trace the execution of enclaves.
As documented in [12, Sec 3.1.10] the performance
counter subsystem on RISC-V is configured using a set
of M-mode Control and Status Registers (CSRs). Each
counter x can be configured via the mhpmcounterX register, while the mhpmeventX contains the current value
of the configured counter event. The RISC-V specification mandates 29 counter registers but implementers may
choose to hardwire them to zero. The semantics of the
configuration registers and the supported events are also
implementation-specific. In addition, there are two fixed,
mandatory counters, mcycle and minstret, that count cycles
and retired instructions. The mcountinhibit register can be
used to start and stop individual counters without changing
their configuration. The mhpmcounterX and mcountinhibit
are only accessible in M-mode and thus exclusive to the
trusted SM. Lower-privileged software is required to use
a software defined API of the code running in M-mode,
to configure the performance counters. The accessibility
of mhpmeventX, mcycle and minstret in lower privilege

modes can be controlled via the mcounteren register. The
combination of these mechanisms allows us to ensure
that only the SM can configure the performance counters,
therefore protecting them from untrusted components.
Additionally, we need to restrict the performance
counters to only count the events of a specific enclave.
Since the RISC-V specification does not provide any
mechanism to count only the events of a certain process,
we need to manually implement this behavior. We use the
mcountinhibit register to configure to enable the counters
shortly before the context switch to the enclave and to
disable them as soon as execution returns to the SM,
directly inside the M-mode assembly trap handler. We
then store the observed difference in HPCs in the context
of the respective enclave. Using the mcountinhibit register
conveniently allows us to enable and disable all counters at
once using a single CSR write. As we still need to free up
a scratch register before we can modify the mcountinhibit
register as well as perform context switches from and to
the eapp, the counters are influenced by a small number
of instructions that do not belong to the traced code.
However, they are fixed which means that we can easily
revert their footprint on the counters.
The HPC measurement logic is further complicated by
the fact that the trap handler can also be triggered while
we operate in M-mode. While disabling all performance
counters at the start of the handler is idempotent and thus
unproblematic, we may only enable performance counters
when we triggered the handler from an enclave. To this
end, we check the MPP field in the mstatus CSR which reveals the privilege mode at which the trap event occurred.
We carefully crafted the assembly code to prevent the
branching logic from influencing the performance counter
values in a dynamic manner.
In principle we could still enable regular software to
use performance monitoring counters, by extending the
context switching logic to also store/restore their values
and configuration before entering an enclave, however, we
decided against this in our proof-of-concept implementation as this would add unnecessary complexity.

5.4. HPC Prediction
For our verification approach, we need to be able to
compute the impact, that a given code sequence has on
the the HPCs without the need to execute said code. In a
first line of experiments we analyze which HPCs behave
deterministically, meaning they always report the same
values for the same instruction sequence. Next, we conducted experiments to evaluate the behavior of different
HPC events with respect to executed instructions.
We then created a list of all RISC-V instructions supported by the VisionFive2 SoC. Subsequently, we created
a sample enclave containing each of these instructions in
short sections fenced by ecall instructions. This allowed
us to create an exact mapping that shows which HPC event
is triggered by which instructions. This mapping is the
heart of our HPC prediction. Based on this mapping we
can simply parse all instructions in a given BB, which
allows us to add up the effect that this BB will have on
the HPC.

5.5. CFG Generation

6. Evaluation

Attesting the control flow of an application requires
knowledge about all allowed paths through the program.
The usual way to gain this information is to create the
CFG, in which all valid transitions between BBs are
encoded as edges. The automatic generation of CFGs is
a complex task that, to the best of our knowledge, has
no perfect solution. The main hurdle for CFG generation
is indirect branching where the target of a control flow
transfer instruction is not hard coded but dynamically
computed at runtime [17]. Examples where this behavior
is used are the implementation of features like function
pointers in C or virtual functions in C++.
In this work we use Ghidra to perform a static code
analysis on the binary of our tracee enclave. Its API allows
us to create a plugin that iterates over all BBs and their
control flow transitions to generate the CFG for the whole
enclave. Next, we add the HPC predictions to each BB
and export the result into a file that is then used for the
attestation workflow.
We found that Ghidra does not reliably detect all targets of indirect branches, i.e. if function pointers are used.
Our basic implementation therefore does not support the
verification of e.g. dynamic dispatch. However, to show
that HPCCFA also works for these scenarios, we have
conducted additional experiments. For these we compile
a tracee enclave with a custom LLVM compiler plugin,
which enables us to predict all possible targets for indirect
branches. Enriching our Ghidra-generated CFG with these
branch targets ensures that the CFG is complete, allowing
us to perform our usual attestation.

In this section we evaluate both the reliability and
performance of our approach. We run Keystone on a
StarFive VisionFive2 SoC which contains four SiFive U74
CPU cores. The proof-of-concept implementation of the
verification runs on an Intel Xeon Gold 6342 CPU. We
first introduce the analyzed applications as well as our
performance and reliability metrics. In Section 6.4 to
Section 6.6 we apply our metrics to the base version of
our approach before exploring two variations to improve
its reliability.

5.6. Attestation
We have split the implementation for the verification
of the traces into two steps. The first step is a Rust program that performs a one-time preprocessing of the CFG
to compute all possible paths between ecalls (including
simple paths and simple loops), while adhering to valid
call stacks. Note, that this does not require the execution
and measurement of enclave code. The second step is
a Python program that uses this information to perform
the actual verification algorithm described in Section 4.
We use the COIN-OR Branch and Cut solver (CBC)3 to
solve our ILP problem. As it was not possible to specify
the problem with vectors as described in Section 4.3, the
first constraint had to be expanded into one constraint per
vector dimension. Similarly, the objective function needed
to be expanded, summing up the resulting objective functions.
For our proof-of-concept implementation, we have
not yet integrated the verification into the tracer enclave.
Instead, the tracer enclave writes the trace data into a file
which is then analyze on a separate system. This is mainly
motivated by the fact that Keystone enclaves do not easily
allow the usage of high-level programming languages
such as Python restricting the ability to quickly prototype
different approaches. For an end-to-end deployment, our
current Python proof-of-concept would need to be ported
to C.
3. https://github.com/coin-or/Cbc (Accessed 2025.04.15)

6.1. Analyzed Applications
For our experiments, the tracee needs to perform
realistic computations for which we can perform an attestation. However, the restricted programming environment
offered by Keystone enclaves, which lack full POSIX
compatibility, drastically limits the number of programs
that can be run without major porting efforts. For all of our
example enclaves we use Keystone’s default runtime —
the eyrie runtime [11]. Further, we avoid dealing with two
address spaces and, therefore, start our attestation after
the runtime has set up its virtual address space. Further,
we restrict our payloads to always run in S-Mode, thus
avoiding context switches between S-Mode and U-Mode.
The first workload we analyze is a simple ”Hello,
World!” program (hello-tracee), where the eapp simply
sends a string to be printed to its host app. This is a useful
program to start with as it mainly consist of runtime code,
which is also used by all other enclaves.
This also revealed that the runtime makes use of
recursive functions. As discussed above, our call stack
logic is unable to handle recursion. We therefore decided
to include one measurement point right before and one
right after such recursive functions. When encountering a
segment that starts after the first and ends with the second
inserted ecall during verification or evaluation, we can
simply skip that segment and continue with the next one.
Next, we have our main workload (tweetnacltracee), based on the minimal tweetnacl4 cryptographic
library. Despite its small size, it still performs computations relevant for real-world workloads and is well suited
to be used within the restricted environment of enclaves.
Upon execution, our evaluation tracee enclave creates an
asymmetric key pair, signs the message ”Hello, world!”,
sends the signed message to the host app, then verifies the
signature on the message, and finally sends the verification
result to the host application before terminating. Lastly,
we have an enclave that contains a minimal code example
making use of dynamic dispatch (dd-tracee).

6.2. Reliability Metrics
We start by explaining the metrics that we use to determine the reliability of our approach. With these metrics,
we want to analyze HPCCFA’s efficacy in detecting code
reuse attacks, such as ROP [18] or JOP [19] attacks.
HPCCFA is designed to correctly attest all valid control flows and never cause any false rejections of valid
4. https://tweetnacl.cr.yp.to/software.html

control flows. Therefore we only test cases in which the
control flow has been violated, as we want to determine
how many of these erroneously pass the attestation. Further, we aim for scenarios in which an attacker only
modifies only small parts of an otherwise valid control
flow because we consider these to simulate the worst case.
We expect that in more realistic cases an attacker would
require significantly larger changes, which in turn should
be easier to detect.
To simulate such small modifications to a valid control
flow, we trace a whole run of an enclave in QEMU5 ,
recording all basic blocks that were executed. This trace
can be split into multiple sections separated by ecalls
that are verified and evaluated individually. Note, that we
always evaluate all sections for a given enclave when
reporting reliability results.
We evaluate the following modifications on the basic
block level:
•
•

•
•

Replace block: Replace a BB from the original
trace with a different one.
Replace with unique block: Like the previous one
but we ensure that the added block has a unique
HPC delta. This primarily excludes very small
BBs.
Insert unique block. Add a block with a unique
HPCs delta to the trace.
Remove block: Remove a BB from the original
trace, simulating an attacker that skips, .e.g, an if
branch in program.

Furthermore, we also analyze more fine-grained changes
to the control flow that mimic a scenario, where an
attacker has, for example, access to an exploit that enables
code injection.
•

Random change: We introduce random changes to
the measured performance counter values in the
range of ±10%.

Our basic reliability score is the relative amount of
modified segments that fail the attestation, i.e. for which
the verification is working. Since the verification occurs at
each ecall, we analyze all of the described modifications
for each ecall to ecall segment of a full trace. Because
ecalls are usually not distributed evenly within one trace,
the length of the individual segments varies drastically,
ranging from less than 100 instructions up to over 100
million instructions. Thus, we use two metrics. The first
uniformly averages the reliability scores over all segments.
The second weighs each segment by its original instruction count. This second metric compensates for cases in
which there could be many short segments with perfect
reliability and one big segment with 0 reliability which
would in total report a very high reliability value according
to the first metric, even though most of the program’s
execution was vulnerable.
For each “replace” experiment we aim to compute the
average over 1000 repetitions per segment while the other
experiments aimed to be averaged over 100 repetitions
per segment. Note that we prevent any two repetitions
from being the same, meaning that there are cases in
which we compute the average over fewer repetitions. For
5. https://www.qemu.org/ (Accessed 2025-11-20)

example, if we have a segment consisting of 8 BBs, we
can only remove 8 different BBs, therefore we base the
average on these 8 experiments. When removing blocks
from the trace, we made sure that the resulting path is not
itself valid. This would, for example, be the case when
removing a block that corresponds to the body of an ifstatement without an else case. Similarly, we ensured that
inserting a block into the trace did not directly create
another valid control flow.

6.3. Performance Metrics
The other aspect we evaluate is the performance overhead. We look at two different aspects: first, the performance overhead introduced by the context switches due
to the tracer/tracee design, and second, the raw overhead
introduced by the verification algorithm.
The overhead introduced by the tracer/tracee design
is measured on the VisionFive2 board using the time
console command. As a baseline, we measure the time
that the tracee enclave needs without any tracer, which is
obtained by starting it as a normal enclave.
For the verification, we time the execution of each
segment inside our evaluation script. This excludes some
initial setup that takes place before the segment verification and only needs to be done once.

6.4. Results: Basic Approach
For the evaluation, we focus on the hello-tracee and
tweetnacl-tracee applications described in Section 6.1.
The dd-tracee only contains a minimal example that
makes use of dynamic dispatch via function pointers.
Performing some steps of the evaluation on it revealed
that the results do not create added value, which is the
reason we omit them here. However, it is important to
note that the presence of dynamic dispatch does not in
any way influence the verification algorithms presented
here, as long as the correct edges are present in the CFG.
In this first evaluation, we run our tracee applications
on the StarFive VisionFive2 SoC. In addition to hardcoded
instruction and cycle performance counters, the board only
provides two configurable performance counter registers.
We are using the following counter events:
•
•

•

Fixed Counter: Instructions Retired
Counter 0: conditional branch instructions retired
+ jal-instructions retired + jalr-instructions retired
Counter 1: integer loads retired

Note that counter 0 is configured to count three events at
the same time.
The hello-tracee performs only three ecalls, of
which the first happens right after the virtual address
space has been set up. This also marks the start of our
verification algorithm. The tweetnacl-tracee performs
significantly more computations, but only performs seven
ecalls. With both enclaves executing hundreds of thousands of instructions, there are long sequences of code
executed between these measurement points. Our analysis revealed that this leads to an intractable number of
paths between the ecalls, which made our preprocessing
approach infeasible, because the resulting file, containing

the pre-computed paths, had a size of multiple Gigabytes.
We therefore added 16 additional ecalls between key
computation steps of the eyrie runtime, which apply to
both of our enclaves. For the tweetnacl-tracee we added
another 8 ecalls to its payload code. Note that none of
these ecalls have any effect other than passing the control back to the host OS, thus triggering verifications. The
addition of these measurement points drastically reduces
the number of pre-computed paths making the verification
tractable.
Reliability. The results of our reliability evaluation
are found in Table 1 and show that this approach in
its basic form reports different reliabilities for our two
enclaves. For the hello-tracee enclave most deviations
from the control flow are detected, while the results for the
tweetnacl-tracee enclave show that HPCCFA provides
barely any protection. The trace of the whole enclaves
is divided into a total of 21 respectively 30 segments of
different sizes. For shorter segments, we observe high reliability in detecting deviations, while longer segments tend
to have very low reliability. This also explains the different
reliability results for the two enclaves, because the trace
of the hello-tracee enclave, which is mostly the runtime,
is divided into shorter segments, while the tweetnacltracee also contains these short segments, but additionally
a few very long segments. This further explains the strong
difference between our two metrics for the tweetnacltracee enclave, because it performs the vast majority of
its computations inside these few long segments. Based
on this observation, we evaluate the impact of restricting
the length of each measurement segment in Section 6.6.
Performance Overhead. The results of our performance evaluation can be seen in the third column of
Table 2. We observe a significant increase in execution
time, when using HPCCFA. However, such an overhead
is to be expected, since the execution has to alternate
between the tracer and the tracee, which also introduces
a lot of additional context switches. The verification adds
another significant amount of overhead that surpasses execution time of the enclave with measurements enabled. We
discuss the performance impact of HPCCFA in Section 8
and further discuss how moving certain parts of the tracer
enclave into the SM could improve performance at the
cost of an increased TCB.

6.5. Results: Additional Counters
The Visionfive 2 board only allows two configurable
performance counters, limiting our approach to measure
three counters in total. In this section, we evaluate how the
reliability scales with adding more performance counters.
With our mapping from instructions to their impact on the
HPCs, we can easily simulate any number of concurrent
counters for a given trace. The Visionfive 2 boards offer
a total of 17 deterministic events that we were able to
map. In this line of experiments we repeat the experiments
from the previous section and evaluate how the ability to
measure 17 counters at the same time would influences
the reliability and performance.
Reliability. Our results (Table 1) show that the
additional HPCs significantly improve the reliability. With
over 99% reliability for all deviations for the hello-tracee
enclave this experiment shows that HPCCFA works. The

results for the tweetnacl-tracee enclave have also been
improved, but a reliability of less than 0.1 in most cases
is not enough to justify the performance overhead.
Further investigation reveals that most of the newly
added counters are tracking events related to specific
instructions, which are effectively absent in our enclaves.
Therefore, it is not surprising that the addition of these
counters did not improve the reliability in a manner that
the tweetnacl-tracee enclave could be protected.
The fact that random changes are now detected in
effectively all cases is likely connected to the HPCs that
are rarely triggered, because changing these can quickly
lead to counter states that are not reachable according to
the given CFG.
Performance Overhead. The results are shown in
the fourth column of Table 2. As the additional counters
are only simulated, we cannot report the impact on the
enclaves execution. We assume that the added overhead
would be minimal, because the only required change
would be to record more HPC values.
The verification with more counters is slightly faster
compared to the previous experiment. We suspect that
some paths may be easier to discard, if more counters
are available, making the ILP faster to solve. However,
we suspect that this can vary from workload to workload.

6.6. Results: Additional Measurement Points
The high reliability in short segments in Section 6.4
suggests that additional measurement points can be introduced in order to increase the overall reliability. In this
section we evaluate this approach in more detail.
Analyzing the segments with low reliability in more
detail shows that they are not only long but also contain a
high number of loops. Applying the formal integer cone
model for our verification process, we observe that the
vectors corresponding to the set of loops on these paths
almost form a basis for the unit integer cone.
Based on these observations, we analyzed the binary
and manually inserted additional ecalls to reduce the
number of loops between any two ecalls. For the hellotracee enclave and thus the runtime code, a single additional ecall was enough to get near perfect reliability.
For the tweetnacl-tracee, we added another 49 ecalls.
As some of these ecalls were inserted into nested loop
structures, the number of segments on the trace increases
from 30 to 102619.
A side effect of having ecalls inside loops is that
some segments can repeat. Filtering out duplicates, i.e.,
segments with the same start and end nodes, measured
counter values, and initial call stacks, results in a vastly
reduced number of segments for the tweetnacl-tracee.
The total of 102619 segments can be reduced to only 788
unique segments, reducing the number of measurements
to be verified drastically. For the reliability analysis we
multiply the results of these segments with their actual
frequency, in order to obtain results that are comparable
to the previous scenarios. Note, that we are using our
simulated evaluation approach and are still simulating the
values of all 17 counter events.
Reliability. The reliability results are depicted in
Table 1. We see that reducing the size of segments is

Experiment
Enclave
Random Change
Remove Block
Replace Block
Replace with Unique B.
Insert Unique B.
Basic Scenario
hello-tracee
0.955, 0.986
0.923, 0.973
0.924, 0.971
0.932, 0.975
0.930, 0.958
Basic Scenario
tweetnacl-tracee
0.803, 0.000
0.741, 0.000
0.743, 0.000
0.753, 0.000
0.744, 0.000
Added Counters
hello-tracee
1.000, 1.000
0.991, 0.997
0.996, 0,999
0,994, 0.998
0.994, 0.998
Added Counters
tweetnacl-tracee
1.000, 1.000
0.886, 0,000
0,900, 0.092
0.906, 0.128
0.900, 0.110
Added ecalls
hello-tracee
1.000, 1.000
0.991, 0.997
0.996, 0.999
0.995, 0.998
0.994, 0.998
Added ecalls
tweetnacl-tracee
1.000, 1.000
1.000 1.000
1.000, 1.000
1.000, 1.000
1.000, 1.000
TABLE 1. R ELIABILITY EVALUATION RESULTS FOR ALL EXPERIMENTS . T HE FIRST NUMBER IS THE RATE AT WHICH SEGMENTS ARE REJECTED
CORRECTLY WHILE THE SECOND ONE TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE TOTAL NUMBER OF INSTRUCTIONS THAT WERE VERIFIED TO BE CORRECT.
Enclave
Baseline
Basic Scenario
Added counters
Added ecalls
hello-tracee
0.41s
1.53s (×3.73)
1.54s (×3.76)
tweetnacl-tracee
0.81s
1.88s (×2.32)
11.7s (×14.44)
Verification
hello-tracee
33s
11s
11s
tweetnacl-tracee
1m 29s
1m 40s
23m 13s
TABLE 2. T IME MEASUREMENTS OF THE ENCLAVE ’ S EXECUTIONS AND THE VERIFICATION OF THE FULL TRACES FOR ALL EXPERIMENTS .
AVERAGED OVER 50 MEASUREMENTS .
Enclave execution

an effective way to improve the attestation to have nearperfect reliability for all tested control flow deviations.
Performance Overhead. The performance impact
is shown in the last column of Table 2. This shows
that regular measurements of the HPCs are getting expensive. For the hello-tracee enclave, where we only
added one measurement, the overhead is accordingly very
small. However, the tweetnacl-tracee, where 102619
measurements are performed instead of 30, the execution
time of the tracee increases by a factor of 14.44. Which
results in an overhead that may not be acceptable in
many scenarios. However, other use cases that require
strong security guarantees may profit from the added value
provided by HPCCFA. Further, it is important to note that
our proof-of-concept implementation is not optimized for
performance, especially the communication between the
tracer and tracee enclave introduces avoidable overhead.
We decided to design our implementation as we did,
because we wanted to evaluate, whether HPC predictions
can be used to enable CFA and our design enables us to
more flexibly test out different approaches. We assume
that it is realistic cut the measurement overhead in half
with an optimized implementation.
When looking at the time needed for the verification,
we also see that this is higher, however, while the other
scenarios only lead to 30 segments, we are now verifying
102619 segments. This means that the average verification
time per segment actually decreased from 3s in the first
scenario to 13ms in the last scenario. Considering the
observation that of the 102619 segments only 788 differ in
their trace, caching attestation results for previously seen
segments would further reduce the verification workload
in this case, as we would be able to skip more than
99% of the necessary verifications in this case (reducing
the verification time to 1m 9s). However, this degree of
effectiveness will vary based on the tracee enclave, we
therefore opted to report the worst case values.

7. Security Analysis
Let us start with the security implications that the
introduction of tracing has. The ability to read HPC traces
of an enclave poses a threat, as these can be used to infer
the control flow path that was taken. It is therefore vital
that these traces are protected from potential attackers. Our
solution is to generate the traces inside the SM, which is

part of the TCB and only making them available to the
attached tracer enclave, which is also inherently trusted
by the tracee enclave. This is ensured by defining tracer’s
hash in the tracee’s metadata. Note, that these measurements and traces are never exposed to the untrusted host
OS or other enclaves.
Next, we look at the tracer enclave. As established
before, it has access to the control flow traces, which
are security sensitive. We guarantee strong protection of
these traces by running the tracer as an enclave inside a
TEE, while severely limiting its interface. All sensitive
data processed by the tracer is provided by the SM, i.e.
a trusted source. The API that the tracer provides to
the untrusted system depends on the implementation. In
case of our proof-of-concept implementation, the tracer’s
verification is triggered by the untrusted host app via its
API. It does, however, not accept any input from the
untrusted system, preventing it from working with invalid
or malicious input. An alternative design could have the
SM trigger the tracer, which would eliminate the need to
provide any API to the untrusted system at all. Further, the
tracer has no direct access to its tracee and can therefore
not directly interfere with its computations.
Another point that is important to discuss is the influence that a fully compromised enclave has on the generated traces. First note, that an attacker has no influence
over the generated measurements, as these are generated
by the SM. Nonetheless, it is fair to assume, that such an
attacker would be able to skip measurement points. This
could intuitively be considered to make additional measurement points, specifically introduced to increase the
reliability, useless. This intuitive assumption is incorrect,
because the additional measurement points are effective,
not simply because the tracee is interrupted more often,
but because it keeps the number of valid control flows and
therefore expected measurements for each segment small.
As discussed before, it is also not an option for the attacker
to never trigger a measurement point again after taking
control of the enclave, as this would leave them unable to
leak any data from inside the enclave. This is an important
distinction to make when comparing the approach to
approaches that rely on instrumentation to generate the
measurements, e.g. by tracking taken branches.

7.1. Covert Channels
As discussed in our attacker model, we currently
consider information leakage through covert channels out
of scope for our tracing architecture. Our enclave design
prevents direct interaction with resources outside the enclave before the tracee has been verified. Nonetheless, an
attacker that took control over the tracee enclave could
still try to leak information through microarchitectural
side-channels. One way to curb this threat could be to
incorporate interrupts, especially timer-based scheduling
interrupts, to trigger a control flow verification. In contrast
to the verification during ecalls this verification could
be performed asynchronously in the background. While
this would not prevent the covert channel leakage itself, it
would severely limit the time window until detection and
thus the amount of data that can be leaked. One challenge
with including interrupts in the verification is that their
asynchronous nature precludes the use of precomputed
path data.

8. Discussion
Reliability on long segments: In Section 6.4 we have
seen that the CFA fails on longer segments, while it works
well on shorter segments. The reason for this can be
found when looking at the formal verification model in
Section 4.3. On the longer segments, where the evaluation
is failing, we have relatively short simple paths, while the
biggest share of the measured HPC values is the result
of various loops. We therefore conclude that the integer
cone around our target vector is very dense, causing most
simulated attacks to also produce vectors that are part of
the integer cone, which then results in false attestations.
Even increasing the dimensionality of the integer cone,
which we do in Section 6.5 does not solve the underlying
problem. To fix the underlying problem, we propose to
add additional measurement points in Section 6.6. This
works on two levels; for one, the number of loops on each
segment is reduced, i.e. the integer cone is generated by
fewer vectors. And secondly, the measured HPC values
are smaller, i.e. the candidate vector for the integer cone
membership problem has a shorter distance to the origin.
Applicability to other TEE solutions: While we only
provide a proof-of-concept implementation for Keystone
on RISC-V, we are confident that our approach can be
ported to other platforms, like Intel TDX [20] or Arm
CCA [21]. Both feature a trusted software layer at the
highest privilege level that is responsible for context
switching between security contexts and both architectures
have HPCs. However, only Intel can make changes to the
TDX module and there is no hardware yet with ARM
CCA support. The prediction of HPC values would need to
be repeated for the respective architecture, but this should
also be possible even if more tedious due to the more
complex instruction set. We were already able to verify
that there are HPCs with deterministic behavior on Intel
CPUs.
Dynamically choosing counter events: During the
evaluation, we have increased the number of counters that
we are tracing, which is not an issue, when simulating the
values. On a real system, providing only a limited number
of counter registers, this would not be an option. As an

alternative, we propose randomize the counter events that
are traced for each segment. This would not have the same
effect as being able to measure all counters in parallel,
however, an attacker would still have to craft attacks,
working for all events, in order to avoid detection reliably.
More efficient ecalls: As detailed in the evaluation,
the current design comes with additional overhead when
handling ecalls. While this enables us to keep the TCB
small, it might be worthwhile to consider trading off
performance vs TCB. Upon encountering an ecall the
control passes to the SM, which could then directly
trigger the tracer enclave to start the verification. After
completion, the SM would take over and pass control
to the host application. This nets four context switches
and only two of those are introduced by the tracer/tracee
concept. Looking at the current implementation we see
the following eight context switches: tracee eapp → SM
→ tracee host app → tracer host app → SM → tracer
eapp → SM → tracer host app → tracee host app.
Another way to reduce the footprint of ecalls is connected to the additional ecalls we introduce to add measurement points. These are triggering complete context
switches to the host OS and the tracer enclave. However,
these are dummy ecalls, that could be caught by the
SM which only needs to write the trace data to a buffer
with intermediate measurements. This could make these
interruptions significantly cheaper without undermining
the security guarantees, as no communication with the
host application happens at these points.
Verification by the TEE: Going even further, to
reduce the performance impact of the CFA, one could
move the verification fully inside the SM. In this case, the
verification would require no additional context switches
for each ecall as the SM gains control anyway. These
improvements would come at the cost of moving all
related computations inside the TCB, however, this is a
consideration especially if only tracer/tracee enclave pairs
are running on a system, which inherently imply trusting
the attached tracers.
Loop handling: Taking a closer look at loop unrolling could help to significantly improve the reliability
in some cases, without the need to introduce more measurement points. Especially for cryptographic implementations, where the exact number of iterations is known
for a large number of loops, this could be beneficial.
However, it is also important to consider that branches in
the loop body would be serially connected, which could in
turn cause an explosion of viable paths discovered during
preprocessing. Alternatively, it could also be interesting to
annotate the loops and use this information during attestation, thus removing the need for further modifications
to the binaries. These modifications should be considered
in future work.
Dynamic measurement points: Another, related approach would be to regularly interrupt the enclave (e.g.
based on a timer) to have dynamic measurement points.
These could be collected by the TEE while verification
is only required once the tracee eapp exits. This would
also allow starting the verification process in parallel if
resources are available. We have decided against this
approach to fully enable extensive preprocessing, making
the live verification more efficient. However, in future
work we intend to look at the use of dynamic measure-

ment points, as this could remove the need for inserting
measurement points into the enclave of the binary. Intel’s
Processor Event-Based Sampling (PEBS) [22] allows for
hardware-assisted creation of records containing the HPC
values and instruction counter, upon counter overflow. An
approach based on dynamic measurement points could
profit from hardware implementations like PEBS, as this
would allow the creation of more measurement points with
only little overhead and no expensive context switches.

9. Related Work
CFA is a concept first introduced in C-Flat [1]. The authors show how the attestation of the control flow enables
a remote verifier to check whether a program has been
corrupted by e.g. return-oriented programming attacks.
For the attestation presented in [1], a trusted component
is needed on the prover (i.e. the monitored device). In
the proof-of-concept implementation ARM TrustZone-A
is used to create a trust anchor on a potentially corrupted
device. The task of this isolated component is to hash and
cryptographically secure information about the observed
control flow. The attestation process is implemented as
a challenge-response protocol in which a remote verifier
provides input to the audited software and later receives
proof of the observed control flow. The generation of
the proof makes use of trampolines that are added to
the software’s control flow instructions (jumps, returns,
etc.) during instrumentation. These trampolines pass the
source and destination addresses of the triggering control
flow instruction to the trusted component, which uses this
information to compute the next value in a hash chain.
The last value of this chain makes up the central element
of the proof provided to the verifier. Loops are treated in
a special way in order to avoid the set of valid hashes
for the software to explode. Instead of adding each jump
between loop iterations to the hash chain, an individual
hash value is computed for each occurrence of a loop,
this value as well as the number of iterations observed is
then separately added to proof. For the verification step
the control flow graph of the program to be attested as
well as its binary are required. Based on these and the
input parameters, the verifier checks whether the reported
hash value is the correct result for the expected control
flow path.
As a follow-up to C-Flat, LO-FAT [2] uses the same
general principles and implements the attestation on a lowend embedded processor. Instead of an instrumentationbased approach with the requirement for some form of
trusted execution environment, this approach enables attestation in hardware. This eliminates some drawbacks
of C-Flat, such as the need for instrumentation and the
performance overhead caused by it.
More recent works have further explored the CFA
concept both with [3], [4], [6] and without [7], [23]
hardware modifications. Some are focusing on smaller
embedded platforms [23]. Tiny-CFA [23] enables CFA by
utilizing APEX [24], a technique to generate proofs of
remote execution (PoX). Other approaches are targeted at
more complex architectures and programs [5], [7]. ScaRR
[5] introduces checkpoints via instrumentation and keeps
a database of valid measurements that are compared to
the measurements for the verification. ReCFA [7] presents

another instrumented approach to enable CFA for more
complex architectures. It focuses on the additional challenges of more complex software, where the generated
CFGs tend to be bigger, which makes it impractical to
compute the hash values of all valid paths in advance.
Instead, the entire control flow path that was observed is
transmitted in compressed form.
The closest related work is presented by GuaranTEE
[8], where the CFA is also based on two enclaves, where
one enclave is responsible for attesting the control flow of
the other. However, they are using the classic instrumentation approach to generate control flow traces directly via
trampolines similar to C-Flat. These trampolines are then
transmitting control flow events to their VerifyTEE, that is
responsible for checking the validity of the control flow.
Our goal was to cleanly separate the trace generation from
the potentially compromised code, therefore, we decided
against depending on components of the tracee for the
trace generation. Another difference is their creation of
the CFG, where they are repeatedly executing the traced
code in the pre-processing phase in order to collect all
valid edges. This has the downside that, if not all viable
edges are reported, the attestation could potentially fail for
valid control flows. Lastly, by locking any communication
with the host application, our design prevents any form
of leakage in the event of detected control flow violations.
Another related line of work is investigating the use
of HPCs for ROP detection [25]–[27]. The detection of
these approaches generally monitors certain HPC to detect
patterns related to ROP attacks, e.g. return mispredictions.
Like our work, these works present concepts for the
detection of ROP attacks. However, these approaches are
only designed to detect patterns in measured HPC values,
which gives an indication that a ROP attack is happening,
whereas our approach takes into account the CFG of a
program in combination with accurate HPC predictions. In
addition to enabling the detection of very minute control
flow violations (see Section 6.2) our approach is designed
to detect all control flow violations, not just those introduced by ROP or JOP attacks.

10. Conclusion

We have presented a concept to enable CFA for TEEs,
which is based on two enclaves running in parallel. It is
able to stop control flow attacks before these can leak
sensitive data. Furthermore, we have demonstrated how
the HPCs architecture can be utilized for a trace generation
that is fully independent of the traced enclave. We pair
this trace generation with the ability to accurately predict
the effect that code sequences have on the HPC trace to
introduce HPCCFA. Our proof-of-concept implementation
of HPCCFA demonstrates the soundness of the design and
is able to attest the control flow of valid programs without
raising any alarms. Our evaluation uncovers a trade-off
between the reliability and the performance overhead of
our CFA approach. With appropriate instrumentation of
the traced code, our last experiments show how near
perfect reliability can be achieved.

Acknowledgements

[15] I. Aliev and M. Henk, “Feasibility of integer knapsacks,” SIAM
Journal on Optimization, vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 2978–2993, 2010.

This work was supported by the German BMFTR
project SASVI.

[16] E. Bach, F. Eisenbrand, T. Rothvoss, and R. Weismantel, “Forallexist statements in pseudopolynomial time,” in Proceedings of
the 2025 Annual ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms
(SODA). SIAM, 2025, pp. 2225–2233.

References
[1]

T. Abera, N. Asokan, L. Davi, J. E. Ekberg, T. Nyman, A. Paverd,
A. R. Sadeghi, and G. Tsudik, “C-FLAT: Control-flow attestation
for embedded systems software,” Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, vol. 24-28October-2016, pp. 743–754, 2016.

[17] R. Tsang, Asmita, D. Joseph, S. Salehi, P. Mohapatra,
and H. Homayoun, “FFXE: dynamic control flow graph
recovery for embedded firmware binaries,” in 33rd USENIX
Security Symposium, USENIX Security 2024, Philadelphia,
PA, USA, August 14-16, 2024, D. Balzarotti and W. Xu,
Eds. USENIX Association, 2024. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity24/presentation/tsang

[2]

G. Dessouky, S. Zeitouni, T. Nyman, A. Paverd, L. Davi, P. Koeberl, N. Asokan, and A. R. Sadeghi, “LO-FAT: Low-Overhead
Control Flow ATtestation in Hardware,” Proceedings - Design
Automation Conference, vol. Part 128280, 2017.

[18] R. Roemer, E. Buchanan, H. Shacham, and S. Savage, “Returnoriented programming: Systems, languages, and applications,”
ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. Secur., vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 2:1–2:34, 2012.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/2133375.2133377

[3]

S. Zeitouni, G. Dessouky, O. Arias, D. Sullivan, A. Ibrahim, Y. Jin,
and A.-R. Sadeghi, “Atrium: Runtime attestation resilient under
memory attacks,” in 2017 IEEE/ACM International Conference on
Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD), 2017, pp. 384–391.

[4]

G. Dessouky, T. Abera, A. Ibrahim, and A. R. Sadeghi, “LiteHAX:
Lightweight hardware-assisted attestation of program execution,”
IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided Design,
Digest of Technical Papers, ICCAD, 2018.

[5]

F. Toffalini, E. Losiouk, A. Biondo, J. Zhou, and M. Conti,
“ScaRR: Scalable runtime remote attestation for complex
systems,” in 22nd International Symposium on Research in Attacks,
Intrusions and Defenses (RAID 2019). Chaoyang District, Beijing:
USENIX Association, Sep. 2019, pp. 121–134. [Online]. Available:
https://www.usenix.org/conference/raid2019/presentation/toffalini

[6]

O. Arias, D. Sullivan, H. Shan, and Y. Jin, “Lahel: Lightweight
attestation hardening embedded devices using macrocells,” in 2020
IEEE International Symposium on Hardware Oriented Security and
Trust (HOST), 2020, pp. 305–315.

[7]

Y. Zhang, X. Liu, C. Sun, D. Zeng, G. Tan, X. Kan, and S. Ma,
“ReCFA: Resilient Control-Flow Attestation,” in ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, 2021, pp. 311–322.

[8]

M. Morbitzer, B. Kopf, and P. Zieris, “Guarantee: Introducing
control-flow attestation for trusted execution environments,” in
2023 IEEE 16th International Conference on Cloud Computing
(CLOUD), 2023, pp. 547–553.

[9]

L. Zhou, X. Ding, and F. Zhang, “Smile: Secure Memory Introspection for Live Enclave,” in Proceedings - IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, vol. 2022-May, 2022, pp. 386–401.

[10] W. Ozga, D. Le Quoc, and C. Fetzer, “TRIGLAV: Remote Attestation of the Virtual Machine’s Runtime Integrity in Public Clouds,”
IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing, CLOUD, vol.
2021-September, pp. 1–12, 2021.
[11] D. Lee, D. Kohlbrenner, S. Shinde, K. Asanovic, and D. Song,
“Keystone: an open framework for architecting trusted execution
environments,” in EuroSys ’20: Fifteenth EuroSys Conference
2020, Heraklion, Greece, April 27-30, 2020, A. Bilas, K. Magoutis,
E. P. Markatos, D. Kostic, and M. I. Seltzer, Eds. ACM, 2020, pp.
38:1–38:16. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3342195.
3387532
[12] Editors: Andrew Waterman, Krste Asanović, and John Hauser,
“The RISC-V Instruction Set Manual Volume II: Privileged Architecture,” RISC-V International, December 2021, document Version
20211203.
[13] X. Wang, S. M. Chai, M. A. Isnardi, S. Lim, and R. Karri,
“Hardware performance counter-based malware identification and
detection with adaptive compressive sensing,” ACM Trans. Archit.
Code Optim., vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 3:1–3:23, 2016. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/2857055
[14] B. Zhou, A. Gupta, R. Jahanshahi, M. Egele, and A. Joshi,
“Hardware performance counters can detect malware: Myth or
fact?” in Proceedings of the 2018 on Asia Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, AsiaCCS 2018, Incheon,
Republic of Korea, June 04-08, 2018, J. Kim, G. Ahn, S. Kim,
Y. Kim, J. López, and T. Kim, Eds. ACM, 2018, pp. 457–468.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3196494.3196515

[19] T. K. Bletsch, X. Jiang, V. W. Freeh, and Z. Liang, “Jump-oriented
programming: a new class of code-reuse attack,” in Proceedings
of the 6th ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and
Communications Security, ASIACCS 2011, Hong Kong, China,
March 22-24, 2011, B. S. N. Cheung, L. C. K. Hui, R. S.
Sandhu, and D. S. Wong, Eds. ACM, 2011, pp. 30–40. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1966913.1966919
[20] Intel, “Intel trust domain extensions,” 2023.
[21] ARM, “Realm Management Extension guide,” https://developer.
arm.com/documentation/den0126/latest, 2025.
[22] Intel,
“Intel
microarchitecture
codename
nehalem
performance
monitoring
unit
programming
guide,”
https://www.intel.com/content/dam/develop/external/us/en/
documents/30320-nehalem-pmu-programming-guide-core.pdf,
2010.
[23] I. De Oliveira Nunes, S. Jakkamsetti, and G. Tsudik, “Tiny-CFA:
Minimalistic Control-Flow Attestation Using Verified Proofs of
Execution,” Proceedings -Design, Automation and Test in Europe,
DATE, vol. 2021-February, pp. 641–646, 2021.
[24] I. de Oliveira Nunes, K. Eldefrawy, N. Rattanavipanon, and
G. Tsudik, “APEX: A verified architecture for proofs of execution
on remote devices under full software compromise,” Proceedings
of the 29th USENIX Security Symposium, pp. 771–788, 2020.
[25] H. Zhou, X. Wu, W. Shi, J. Yuan, and B. Liang, “Hdrop: Detecting
rop attacks using performance monitoring counters,” in Information
Security Practice and Experience, X. Huang and J. Zhou, Eds.
Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2014, pp. 172–186.
[26] X. Wang and J. Backer, “SIGDROP: Signature-based ROP Detection using Hardware Performance Counters,” arXiv e-prints, p.
arXiv:1609.02667, Sep. 2016.
[27] S. Das, B. Chen, M. Chandramohan, Y. Liu, and W. Zhang,
“Ropsentry: Runtime defense against rop attacks using hardware
performance counters,” Computers & Security, vol. 73, pp.
374–388, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0167404817302481

